---
title: "Content for Store Developers at Knowledge"
date: 2018-04-04T00:29:25.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=f9270ab8db9197484e1df4621f9619c2"
---
<p>It&#39;s hard for me to believe, but this year will be my 9th ServiceNow Knowledge conference. I&#39;ve attended as a customer admin/developer, partner consultant, and an employee, and found value out of it every time, whether it was with 500 other people in 2009 or 18k of my closest friends this year. There is a tremendous amount of content and in the interest of saving store/isv developers some time and effort, I&#39;ve called out some sessions I&#39;ll be leading that are specific to store and scoped application development in ServiceNow, as well as some other platform development focused sessions. </p>
<h3>My Sessions</h3>
<p>I&#39;m not above a little self-promotion, so here are some store development related sessions where I&#39;ll be speaking. </p>
<p><strong>CCB0783</strong> - <em>Introduction to Store Application Development and Best Practices</em><br />Learn about what is necessary for ServiceNow Store development in terms of Technology Partner Program, vendor instances, and certification. Then learn about some of our primary best practices and things to avoid in developing applications for the store.<br />May 8, 10:30 am - 11:20 am</p>
<p><strong>TT3042</strong> - <em>Store App Development</em><br />Lunch table topic discussion for developers interested in or currently developing apps to list of the ServiceNow Store. We&#39;ll talk through best practices, pain points, and I want to primarily gather feedback for making the process easier and better. <br />May 8, 12:30 pm - 1:30 pm</p>
<p><strong>CCW0624</strong> - <em>Advanced Store Application Development</em><br />In a series of workshops and lectures, learn new strategies for developing scoped applications for the store. Learn how to use system properties and custom tables to control the functionality of your application rather than relying on global system artifacts. Use newer platform and application development technologies like Automated Testing Framework, Guided Tours, and Application restricted caller access to add value and functionality to your application.<br />May 8, 3:50 pm - 5:50 pm</p>
<p><strong>TT3041</strong> - <em>Scoped App Development</em><br />Lunch table topic discussion for scoped app developers around developing scoped apps, and primarily feedback for what customers and partners would like to see included in scoped apps in future releases.<br />May 9, 12:30 pm - 1:30 pm</p>
<p><strong>CCDT0789</strong> - <em>Store App Development Best Practices</em><br />Learn about the best practices in developing and app for the ServiceNow store as well as how to avoid some common pitfalls in store development.<br />May 9, 2:30 pm - 3:00 pm</p>
<p><strong>CCW0357</strong> - <em>Custom App Front-end with Service Portal</em><br />Service Portal is more than a self-service end user portal. The default interface for custom applications is robust and responsive, but sometimes you need a custom front-end for an application that allows your users to use your app with little to no training, and be closer to the consumer experiences their use to on their personal devices. In this session, you&#39;ll create custom widgets that communicate with each other to create a custom front-end for a personal dashboard application built on the ServiceNow platform.<br />May 10, 10:30 am - 12:30 pm</p>
<h3>Other Recommended Sessions</h3>
<p>I&#39;ve looked through most of the K18 sessions (there are a lot) and found some other store or platform related sessions that I think might be useful to a store/isv developer. There are many, many more sessions out there, so if you are developing an app that is dependent on a ServiceNow product, like ITSM, CSM, or HRSM, or if there is a feature your app uses that you are interested in like OpenFrame or Service Portal you should be able to find multiple sessions around those topics. If you&#39;d like more info about or to register for any of these sessions you should be able to look them up by the session id (i.e.CCW0357) in the <a href="https://www.servicenowevents.com/servicenowknowledge18/myevent_agenda.php" rel="nofollow">session scheduler</a>.</p>
<ul><li>CCB0453 - Getting Your App Ready for ServiceNow Store Certification | May 9, 11:40 am - 12:30 pm</li><li>CCW0682 - Advanced Scripting and JSON | May 9, 10:30 am - 12:30 pm</li><li>CCW0685 - Architecting Scoped Scripts: An Approach to Reusable Code in ServiceNow | May 9, 3:50 pm - 5:50 pm</li><li>CCDT0721 - Be a Rockstar Developer with Xplore: Developer Toolkit - Hands-on | May 8, 11:00 am - 11:30 am</li><li>CCW1351 - Building Applications that are Configurable, Extensible, and Upgradeable | May 8, 3:50 pm - 5:50 pm</li><li>CCW1085 - Designing People Interfaces | May 8, 1:30 pm - 3:30 pm</li><li>CCW1352 - Rendezvous with ServiceNow Developer and Debugging Tools | May 9, 10:30 am - 12:30 pm</li><li>CCB1107 - Technical Architecture &amp; Devops at S&amp;P 100 Scale | May 8, 2:40 pm - 3:30 pm</li><li>CCB0063 - Improve Your User Onboarding with Guided Tours | May 8, 10:30 am - 11:20 am</li><li>CCDT0610 - Building Apps on ServiceNow - The App Publishers Checklist | May 8, 11:30 am - 12:00 pm</li><li>LAB0210 - Reporting 201: Advanced Reporting | May 8, 1:30 pm - 3:30 pm</li><li>CCW1224 - Best Practices for Scripted REST APIs | May 8, 3:50 pm - 5:50 pm</li><li>CCB0742 - Improving Performance of Import Sets | May 8, 5:00 pm - 5:50 pm</li><li>CCB0703 - Code Last: A Practical Guide to Resilient Applications | May 9, 1:30 pm - 2:20 pm</li><li>CCB0457 - Securing Scoped Applications for CC &#39;18 | May 9, 2:40 pm - 3:30 pm</li><li>CCB0586 - Integration Authentication Best Practices | May 9, 3:50 pm - 4:40 pm</li></ul>
<p>*DISCLAIMER: The sessions above looked interesting and applicable on the scheduler, but I haven&#39;t seen the actual content.</p>
<p>**Some of these sessions may show up as full on the scheduler, but in my experience some people who have registered will not show up and you may still be able to get into the lab/workshop if you show up early.</p>
<h3>Recommended Pre-Conference Training</h3>
<p>You&#39;ve probably already gone past the point to be able to register for these, but there are some pre-conference training sessions that would be helpful for app developers.</p>
<p><strong>Application Development Fundamentals</strong><br />In this hands-on course, students will use the ServiceNow application development process to develop an award-winning Loaner Equipment application. This course uses a sprint-based development approach to develop and implement features resulting in &#34;shippable product&#34; at the end of each content section</p>
<p><strong>Service Portal Fundamentals</strong> and <strong>Service Portal Advanced</strong></p>
<p> </p>
<p>If we&#39;ve corresponded by email, on the community, twitter, linkedin, or even on a webex and you&#39;d like to meet in person let me know via twitter <a href="https://twitter.com/bradtilton" rel="nofollow">&#64;bradtilton</a> or by email at <a href="mailto:brad.tilton&#64;servicenow.com" rel="nofollow">brad.tilton&#64;servicenow.com</a>. One of my favorite parts of knowledge is meeting people in person that I only know virtually!</p>