---
title: "ITOM at Knowledge Real Stories Real Customers Real Success  Part "
date: 2018-05-08T21:11:41.000Z
authors: ["Chanda Dani"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=6a8925ccdb0e9b404816f3231f9619db"
---
<p>Welcome to Knowledgde18 and the ITOM blog series - Real Stories, Real Customers and Real Success! Today is the first day of the conference and I hope all of you are discovering different ways in which the ServiceNow platform can be leveraged to provide a more natural experience to your users. In part I of this blog series today, I want to share with you my learnings from talking to customers about why they are choosing the ServiceNow Platform for their IT Operations.</p>
<p>Most customers say that their challenges lie in keeping services up, maintaining compliance and being able to provide new service in an agile manner. Lines of business in most enterprises today are working towards consumerization of their external facing apps. They expect similar experiences from their IT leading to an overall trend where user experience for both external and internal consumers is key for success.</p>
<p>It is common for services to use several different software modules, hybrid forms of infrastructure, multiple cloud platforms and be processed by multiple teams. Today most IT departments handle incidents, HR cases, customer requests etc. all of which are processed in silos using non-intuitive and archaic methods. With a single unified platform, ServiceNow reduces the complexity involved in designing services and helps customers provide an intuitive experience to their users. This is the single biggest reason why customers choose ServiceNow. They like the fact that the platform supports a broad ecosystem of cloud providers and 3<sup>rd</sup> party software. Finally, they choose ServiceNow ITOM as it allows end to end service delivery and maintenance, made possible by integration of ITOM with service management and Security Operations. Let us take a deeper dive into these and explore some real customer stories at Knowledge18.</p>
<p><strong>Power of the Platform</strong></p>
<p>A platform needs to deliver a set of key core capabilities that customers can leverage to deliverable services. Besides being highly performant, available, secure and compliant, the ServiceNow platform offers a single data model for all its capabilities. It is our one single data model that supports all the dependencies and can integrate with several different configuration parameters per system. Once the components constituting a service are fully mapped, they can be tracked across third party integrations into the platform. The CMDB is the single source of truth for the service and can be updated and can be trusted. It not only has the current and updated information for all configuration items but also supports change and incident management. All integrations can be monitored, and the platform has robust alerting for failures and errors.</p>
<p>All components of a service also become data sources that can be constantly monitored and analyzed. Once you have the data, a customer can apply machine learning and other analytics to the data allowing for predictive and prescriptive actions.</p>
<p>The platform opens the doors to many flavors of workflows and automation. The single data model, cloud integrations and intelligent data analytics capabilities all come together in the same platform, allowing customers to prioritize the user experience. The emphasis now shifts towards delivering a better experience and consumption model for the service irrespective of what the underlying component and infrastructure may be.</p>
<p>The Platform scales such that the service model can be extended to a large number of services and several hundred thousand users. Leveraging machine learning and intelligence, it can be made self-healing. The services can be designed in a modular way so that they can be easily updated and reused, thus making them future proof.</p>
<p>At Knowledge18, hear Verizon present their ServiceNow adoption journey and how they replaced several internal tools with the ServiceNow solution. Learn how they do health checks and monitoring across their portfolio. Hear Expedia group talk about capturing dependency data and enabling service owners to plan effectively for outages. Watch Alliant describe how they minimized services outages related to data access. Hear how Dell Technologies uses ServiceNow Event Management to reduce noise, manage alerts and drastically reduce their time to resolution. See how H&amp;R Block uses Discovery to accelerate the value they were realizing from service mapping.</p>
<p>In fact, there are 38 customers presenting how they use SeviceNow ITOM and each story is tied to their ability to leverage the platform to create, map and intelligently monitor and manage their services. </p>
<p><strong>Broad Ecosystem</strong></p>
<p>Most customers are operating in mixed environments where their services may be distributed across on-premise and public cloud platforms. They require integration with not just cloud APIs, templates etc. but also with several other third-party services. Eventually every component becomes a data source allowing smart analysis, correlation and pattern matching leading to intelligent detection and remediation of issues. You will find Chevron talk about using ServiceNow with Microsoft. They envision their implementation of ServiceNow to provide a portal for requesting and managing Azure cloud services. Hear Nets talk how they integrated ServiceNow with VMware, Microsoft and Cisco to create trustworthy services. Hear how Fonterra IT, leverages ServiceNow partnership with AWS and allows their employees to provision infrastructure environments in minutes.</p>
<p><strong>Holistic Solution: End to end discovery, availability and automation of services made possible by integration with ITSM, Security Operations, third party software and public cloud offerings</strong></p>
<p>Customer want visibility across the entire end-to-end process from the time a request originates to the time it is fully resolved. The entire process may go across several internal organizations, multiple teams, multiple software stacks and go all the way from automated detection to self-healing to root cause analysis, ticketing and full resolution. For the consumer of the service, it is a seamless experience made possible by the ServiceNow platform that serves as a single system of record. No wonder customers now talk of operations as “service centric” operations management. Hear CBRE present how they gained visibility into full Business Services by mapping their underlying infrastructure components to the service. Hear from Albertsons/Safeway about how they designed and implemented the CMDB to provide a trusted source of data for critical use for Service Management as well as Operations Management.</p>
<p>I hope you get a chance to sit through few of these sessions and walk out armed with the knowledge about how you could replicate these successes for your organization.</p>