---
title: "Part  Getting Out of the Woods of Business Service Resource Mapping Service Mapping Kingston Release"
date: 2018-05-04T23:08:58.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=d50e517adb3997005322f4621f9619f4"
---
<pre>Authored by: Steve Anderson, ITOM Product Manager</pre>
<h3>Sometimes, you can&#39;t see the forest among all the trees...</h3>
<p>This is certainly true regarding IT assets that are discovered en masse and populated in your <a title="ServiceNow CMDB" href="https://www.servicenow.com/products/servicenow-platform/configuration-management-database.html" target="_blank" rel="nofollow">CMDB</a>. When issues are reported by customers, they are generally associated with services that they recognize and use, rather than the low-level infrastructure elements that support those services. How do you quickly troubleshoot and resolve such customer-impacting conditions? Long lists of configuration items (CIs), even sorted by type (network routers, Windows servers, Linux servers, etc.), are insufficient to understand how all these devices work together.</p>
<p>Many automated discovery solutions (including <a title="ServiceNow Discovery" href="https://www.servicenow.com/products/discovery.html" target="_blank" rel="nofollow">ServiceNow Discovery</a>) offer some insight via dependency mapping, keying off of network connections between devices. However, this still results in an overload of information, since there is no accounting for the purpose or context of those network connections, especially when IT resources are shared for multiple purposes.</p>
<p>This is where <a title="ServiceNow Service Mapping" href="https://www.servicenow.com/products/service-mapping.html" target="_blank" rel="nofollow">ServiceNow Service Mapping</a> helps. It starts at the end user&#39;s entry point to a service and traverses all IT components used in that context, building out the map of the service in the CMDB. The only configuration items (CIs) in that map are the only ones you need to be concerned about when diagnosing and restoring (or proactively improving) the operation of that service. That clarity and focus is immensely valuable!</p>
<p>Getting to this ultimate state for all of your organization&#39;s services doesn&#39;t happen by magic, even with Service Mapping; it does require input from subject matter experts in multiple disciplines within the organization, such as service owners, application designers and network engineers. But in the Kingston release of Service Mapping, the methodology has been completely redesigned to produce more services mapped to a usable degree much more quickly.</p>
<p>In the previous methodology, the first hurdle was identifying services to be mapped, with their entry points and names, and the high-level design of the service. This required the Service Mapping administrator to reach out to service owners, asking them to provide the initial information on their services. But those service owners were often too bogged down in the more immediate demands of their services to take the time to respond promptly with the necessary information. Furthermore, when such information was provided, the Service Mapping administrator would need to work in a primarily serial fashion through service maps, working through all of the road blocks in the mapping process of one service (such as missing credentials, network access, insufficient map patterns, etc.) before moving on to another. This constrained the rate of production of mapped services for organization to a disappointing level.</p>
<p>In the <a title="Kingston Release: Service Mapping" href="https://docs.servicenow.com/bundle/kingston-it-operations-management/page/product/service-mapping/reference/c_ServiceMappingOverview.html" target="_blank" rel="nofollow">Kingston</a> release, ServiceNow addresses these hurdles by shifting the approach on how services are mapped in the CMDB, drastically reducing the time and effort required to produce mapped services:</p>
<p style="padding-left: 30px;"><em><strong>Advancement #1:</strong> </em>Rather than waiting for service owners to provide the starting point for their services, Service Mapping takes all of the load balancer virtual IPs (VIPs) that were identified by ServiceNow Discovery and puts them into a <em>candidate</em> service list. The mapping administrator reviews and adjusts that list, e.g. removing disaster recovery resources or adding entries manually or from an import file. Then, the mapping administrator clicks a button to start mapping all of these candidates in parallel!</p>
<p style="padding-left: 30px;"><em><strong>Advancement #2:</strong> </em>Inevitably, with parallel, bulk mapping attempts comes bulk errors. Fortunately, Service Mapping addresses that with a corresponding new error handling methodology <em>(which we&#39;ll examine in more detail in part 2 of this blog series)</em>. But in general, it organizes all errors into categories, within which one or a small number of corrective actions (e.g. for a Windows server credentials error category, obtaining a few key credentials) typically will address the vast majority of error instances. This allows the mapping administrator to focus roadblock-clearing efforts where the biggest impact will be made. The goal during this stage is to resolve the vast majority of errors within roughly a couple of weeks.</p>
<p style="padding-left: 30px;"><em><strong>Advancement #3:</strong> </em>There is still a need to interact with service owners. Service Mapping, leveraging workflow in the ServiceNow platform, coordinates these interactions directly with questionnaires (for getting input along the way) and for approval of the final map. And since early results from the mapping process are already available, early value is visible to the service owners, the scope of attention needed from them is more focused, which stimulates more timely responses.</p>
<p>Upon approval, these service maps become available to use during incident management, event management and change management, amplifying the efficiency of these disciplines and how they support the overall organization&#39;s business ambitions by showing the paths through the forests rather than being lost among the trees.</p>
<p>Remember to check out <a href="community?id&#61;community_blog&amp;sys_id&#61;ff75b874dbe61b0067a72926ca9619c1" rel="nofollow">part 2</a> in our series; and join us for an upcoming webinar on June 19th featuring CBRE where we&#39;ll dive deeper into Service Mapping capabilities and results. <a href="https://go.servicenow.com/LP&#61;10478" rel="nofollow">Register here</a>!</p>