---
title: "ITOM at Knowledge Real Stories Real Customers Real Success  Part "
date: 2018-05-10T00:22:38.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=a5de57d8db8a9b40fac7f4621f96190f"
---
<p><strong>ITOM at Knowledge18: Real Stories, Real Customers, Real Success – Part 2</strong></p>
<p>I hope you are having an informative Knowledge18. It is the second day of the conference today and by now you may have already seen some of the ITOM demos and sat through some of the ITOM sessions. Today, I would like to share with you my learnings from talking to customers on how they adopted ITOM and what are some of the key outcomes they achieved for their business. Most customers tend to adopt ITOM in three steps – They first gain visibility into all their resources and do service mapping. Then they move to managing the health of these services. Finally, they optimize their environment and the overall service delivery and consumption experience across multiple clouds. Let us walk through the customer stories at Knowledge18 across these steps.</p>
<p> </p>
<p><strong>Visibility</strong></p>
<p>Customers like to get a complete view and understanding of their operations footprint across their data centers and cloud providers with a business context. This is one of the key reasons why they start using ITOM in the first place. Relationships between the components of a service are key for managing incidents and changes. Once the relationship is established in a service map, it allows for faster root cause analysis, better understanding of the environment and opportunity for automation. In the absence of this, issues move across teams and an end to end resolution can take longer.</p>
<p>Hear from Toyota Motor North America about how they are taking Business Service Mapping to the Next Level and implementing it at scale. Watch T-Mobile present their adoption journey and how they discover millions of CI and run thousands of orchestration jobs daily. You can also attend Nets talk about their cloud migration and datacenter migration journey and how they leveraged ServiceNow Discovery and Service Mapping. Hear how they doubled their CIs and tripled the number of relations in CMDB.</p>
<p> </p>
<p><strong>Health</strong></p>
<p>Once customers discover all their resources and have mapped their services, they take the next steps to understand, visualize, track and maintain health across the services. Generally, customers have several monitoring tools in their environment for monitoring applications and infrastructures. Most deal with thousands of alerts and events and multiple dashboards that provide different interpretations, prolonging the time to resolution. To be efficient, they want to do centralized and end to end monitoring of their services. They like how various monitoring tools become a data source for ITOM where additional steps can be performed. This includes suppression of duplicate events, establishing correlation between alerts, pinpointing issues, suggesting actionable tasks and making all this easy to consume in a single dashboard. This dashboard becomes a single source of truth for outages and helps customers identify the root causes faster.</p>
<p>Hear how OCLC designed an automated response system which integrates with ServiceNow incidents. They saved hundreds of hours of staff time across multiple teams and reduced their service outages. Watch Dell talk about event management and how they accelerated the identification of the source of disruption, reduced noise and designed dashboards that gives them a full business perspective.</p>
<p><br /> Learn about world’s largest container shipping company - Maersk - coming back into production after experiencing a serious cyber-attack and how they used ServiceNow to grow &#34;Back to Better&#34;. Hear how Expedia integrated their infrastructure monitoring tools with ServiceNow and created a self-healing system. Learn how Verizon uses ServiceNow to keep their services highly available for their global operations around the clock. They talk about how they do end-to-end monitoring, troubleshooting and manage performance and SLAs. H&amp;R Block is another customer presenting their journey through Discovery, Service Mapping and Event Management with ServiceNow.</p>
<p> </p>
<p><strong>Optimization</strong></p>
<p>Once customers have the understanding provided by Visibility and Health, they take the next step to drive better decisions, increase service agility and improve operational efficiencies across multiple clouds. Many create a service catalog to provision cloud resources on multiple clouds and optimize their cloud usage based on policies. They apply governance with quotas, consolidate accounts and optimize spend by allocating and monitoring budgets by groups. Many automate schedules for operational hours and spin downs of instances. </p>
<p>At the conference, you can watch how Philips 66 uses ServiceNow to manage their cloud presence.</p>
<p>Hear from de Volksbank about how they maximized the value of ITOM by implementing the complete solution from Discovery, Service Mapping, Event Management and Orchestration. They discover business services, signal problems with event management, take actions with orchestration, create incidents and measure the availability in service portfolio management.</p>
<p>Finally, you can always see how ServiceNow drinks its own champagne and uses ITOM internally to achieve 98% reduction in incident noise by correlating and de-duplicating incoming events and 67% reduction in P1 and P2 incidents via event management and process improvements. In addition, we save 9,600 hours per year via automated alert management and avoid $780K of expenses by eliminating manual work.</p>