---
title: "Getting Started Building a Store App"
date: 2018-06-08T23:50:59.000Z
authors: ["Brad Tilton"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=1a473dc2dbee53c08e7c2926ca961934"
---
<p>So you’ve joined the technology parter program and are ready to build your app/integration with the goal of listing it on the store. In this post we&#39;ll walk through some important information to know before you start your ServiceNow Store app development. </p>
<h3>Vendor Instances</h3>
<p>When you joined the TPP you should have been provisioned two vendor instances (<em>ven12345.service-now.com</em>). These are the instances you will need to use to develop and test your application before submitting for certification. These instances have some special characteristics that are different than other instances:</p>
<ul><li>They are your for the duration of your TPP membership and will not be taken away for inactivity.</li><li>The scoped of these instances is keyed to your unique company code [x_acme].</li><li>They have specific store testing and certification capabilities.</li></ul>
<h3>Developer to Vendor Instance App Migration</h3>
<p>It’s fairly common for partners to have built out a POC or even working version of their application in a developer instance (<em>dev12345.service-now.com</em>) before joining the TPP. There is a place in the signup process where you can indicate if you have an app in a developer instance you plan to eventually submit for certification. This process <em>does not</em> actually move the app from your developer instance to your vendor instances. What it <em>does do</em> is add the scope of the developer instance [x_12345] to your company&#39;s app repo. By default, only apps that are created in your company&#39;s vendor instances with the [x_acme] scoped can be submitted for certification from your vendor instance. This makes it so that you can submit an app that was originally developed in a developer instance for certification from your vendor instance. <br />Note: This can only be done with one developer instance. Once you have vendor instances you should be doing all of your app development in the vendor instances.</p>
<p>When it comes to moving your app from your developer instance to your vendor instance you&#39;ll need to do that manually. You can either <a href="https://docs.servicenow.com/bundle/kingston-application-development/page/build/applications/task/t_PublishApplicationsToAnUpdateSet.html" rel="nofollow">publish your app to an update set</a>, and <a href="https://docs.servicenow.com/bundle/kingston-application-development/page/build/system-update-sets/task/t_SaveAnUpdateSetAsAnXMLFile.html#t_SaveAnUpdateSetAsAnXMLFile" rel="nofollow">export it locally and import</a> into your vendor instance, or use Studio&#39;s <a href="https://docs.servicenow.com/bundle/kingston-application-development/page/build/applications/concept/c_SourceControlIntegration.html" rel="nofollow">source control integration</a>.</p>
<h3>ServiceNow Releases</h3>
<p>Another thing to be aware of is that ServiceNow has an N-2 release support model. That means that as of the writing of this article the currently supported releases are Istanbul, Jakarta, and Kingston. In order to market your app to the largest number of customers you will probably want a similar support model. ServiceNow store apps can be forwards compatible, but not backwards compatible, so you will need to develop your app on the lowest release you intend to support. For example, if you want your app to be certified for I, J, and K you would need to build it in an Istanbul instance, then test it on Jakarta and Kingston. If you build it on Jakarta you will only be able to certify it on Jakarta and Kingston.</p>
<p>You can find more information on ServiceNow Releases <a href="https://docs.servicenow.com/bundle/kingston-release-notes/page/release-notes/available-versions.html" rel="nofollow">here</a> and a bit more about store app forward compatibility <a href="community?id&#61;community_blog&amp;sys_id&#61;22cda2e9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96190a" rel="nofollow">here</a>.</p>
<h3>Certification Policies</h3>
<p>Every app and integration that goes on the store has to go through a rigorous certification process before getting listed. It is typically a 4-6 week iterative, consultative process. The timetable is dependent on the complexity of the app and the responsiveness of the partner. You can find the most current version of the certification policies on the <a href="https://tpp.servicenow.com/sn_appstore_store.do#!/tpp/help?article&#61;KB0010015" rel="nofollow">Publisher Portal</a>, but there are a few that partners frequently run into that I want to call out here:</p>
<ul><li>If your app inserts or updates records in ServiceNow, you must use <a href="https://developer.servicenow.com/app.do#!/lp/technology_partner_program_quick_start/app_store_learnv2_tpp_kingston_introduction_to_web_service_import_sets?v&#61;kingston" rel="nofollow">Web Service Import Sets</a> rather than using the REST Table API to directly insert/update records in a target table.</li><li>Do not use iFrames that show external content on a ServiceNow page.</li><li>Do not use Global UI Scripts</li><li>Do not use DOM manipulation on default ServiceNow content. You may use DOM manipulation against a ui created in your app such as ui pages, ui macros, or service portal widgets.</li></ul>
<h3>Submitting an Integration for Certification</h3>
<p>There are a number of use cases or integrations where it is possible for the integration to work without creating an app or any artifacts in ServiceNow, but if you want your integration to be certified you <em>must</em> create an app and a few components in ServiceNow. For a more detailed explanation see the <a href="community?id&#61;community_blog&amp;sys_id&#61;7fcde2e9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961941" rel="nofollow">Minimum App Requirements for Certification</a> post.</p>
<h3>Additional Resources</h3>
<p>For more information on Building, Testing, and Certifying your application as well as additional general technical resources, take a look at the <a href="community?id&#61;community_blog&amp;sys_id&#61;546e2eaddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619ee" rel="nofollow">TPP Technical Resources</a> post.</p>
<p>You should also check out our interactive <a href="https://developer.servicenow.com/app.do#!/lp/technology_partner_program_quick_start?v&#61;kingston" rel="nofollow">Quick Start</a> or <a href="https://developer.servicenow.com/app.do#!/lp/technology_partner_program?v&#61;kingston" rel="nofollow">Full TPP Learning Plan</a> where you&#39;ll dive deeper into instances, development tools, testing, and import sets. </p>
<h3>Feedback</h3>
<p>If you have any questions or feedback, please feel free to comment on this post, reach out to your partner manager, or email us at technology.partners&#64;servicenow.com.</p>