---
title: "Perth ExchangeNow Community Meetup Launches"
date: 2018-08-15T12:03:47.000Z
authors: ["Matt Dodd"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=f18125ffdbff1f4067a72926ca9619be"
---
<p>Last Thursday we held an initial meeting of interested community members to reinvigorate the Perth ServiceNow Community. Below are the items discussed and the decisions that were made:</p>
<p><strong>Name</strong>: New name agreed on Perth “ExchangeNow” – idea is to differentiate this from SNUG which has vendor association to make this more of a community thing.<br /><strong>When</strong>: The middle month in each quarter. (i.e. Feb, May, Aug, Nov) Ideal day and time to meet was Thursday at 4pm. Duration should be 2 hours.<br /><strong>Hosting</strong>: Can be customer, partner or ServiceNow but ideally rotating through different locations. Hosting is not tied to presenter necessarily. Hosting location does not necessarily also need to include food/drink catering but could do. Can be agreed with organisers ad-hoc.<br /><strong>Purpose</strong>: A group of like-minded people who are meeting up to discuss and learn from each other as a community of people. The following items were listed as bullet points from the discussion of things we wanted to include:<br />- Upcoming Event Information<br />- Idea Sharing<br />- Customer Showcase<br />- Topic Discussion<br />- NOT Selling or promoting<br />- Issues / Suggestions<br />- Resources for Learning<br />- Cover ITSM and also Non-ITSM topics<br />- ServiceNow Ecosystem and bringing everything together.<br /><strong>Proposed Meeting Agenda (Template):</strong><br />- Introduction<br />- 3 Session slots of 20 minutes – typically 15 minutes presentation &#43; 5 mins Q&amp;A<br />- 20 minutes Open-Mic – General Q&amp;A discussion from the room.<br />- Networking – final 30 minutes.</p>
<p><em><strong>Example</strong></em>:<br />4:10pm Session 1 – Customer Presentation<br />4:30pm Session 2 – Discussion Topic: How to build an ideas portal<br />4:50pm Session 3 – ServiceNow: Best Practise on XXXXX<br />5:10pm Open Mic – Questions, Issues, Call for suggestions/help<br />5:30pm Networking<br />6:00pm Close</p>
<p>The 3 session slots can be filled by anyone and should ideally be aligned to the bullet points listed under the purpose heading above. Partners/ServiceNow can be invited to present also, at the discretion of the organizers and within the agreed parameters.</p>
<p>I would also like to thank the new group of organizers who volunteered to help out with future ExchangeNow meetings. </p>
<ul><li><a href="community?id&#61;community_user_profile&amp;user&#61;100f46a1db181fc09c9ffb651f96193a" target="_blank" rel="nofollow">Dan Spada</a> </li><li><a href="community?id&#61;community_user_profile&amp;user&#61;c1431229db1c1fc09c9ffb651f9619f8" target="_blank" rel="nofollow">Mayank Verma</a> </li><li><a href="community?id&#61;community_user_profile&amp;user&#61;e99e0ae9dbd41fc09c9ffb651f96199d" target="_blank" rel="nofollow">Sam Bradbury</a> </li><li><a href="community?id&#61;community_user_profile&amp;user&#61;2baf4e6ddb181fc09c9ffb651f961993" target="_blank" rel="nofollow">John Boyland</a> </li><li><a href="community?id&#61;community_user_profile&amp;user&#61;3e7ece69dbd41fc09c9ffb651f96193d" target="_blank" rel="nofollow">Neil Rushton</a></li></ul>
<p>The organizers have already created a sign-up page for an ExchangeNow email distribution at the following address. Please sign up there also to receive these notifications: <a href="http://eepurl.com/dD9vxX" target="_blank" rel="nofollow">http://eepurl.com/dD9vxX</a></p>
<p><strong>Community Profiles &amp; Settings:</strong></p>
<p>Please check your ServiceNow Community profile and ensure that your contact details are up to date. Please also sign up if you are not a member. The link to the community home page is here: <a href="community?id&#61;community_forum&amp;sys_id&#61;1a295a2ddbd897c068c1fb651f961977" rel="nofollow">https://community.servicenow.com/community?id&#61;community_forum&amp;sys_id&#61;1a295a2ddbd897c068c1fb651f961977</a>  or short link here: <a href="http://bit.ly/PerthSNCommunity" rel="nofollow">http://bit.ly/PerthSNCommunity</a></p>
<div>I would also encourage you to select a username that somewhat resembles your real name in order to help others know who you are. You are likely to get a better response to your questions if you are known as something more realistic than ‘furrytiger123’ &#x1f609; A profile photo (of yourself) also goes a long way.</div>
<p> </p>
<p>Looking forward to the future, and to see you all at the next event! Please spread the word and get others to sign up and join the party!</p>