---
title: "TCA by ETRADE Scaling GRC Across the Enterprise"
date: 2018-08-25T10:27:21.000Z
authors: ["teresalaw"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=f25b6407dbc4ab44a39a0b55ca961990"
---
<p>Why was Steve Nasalroad holding up a pair of socks at his Knowledge18 GRC presentation? It turns out they weren&#39;t just any socks. They were Rockford Reds, the socks used for the ubiquitous &#34;sock monkey&#34;, and Steve was making a point about configurability.  Just like those socks can be turned into a monkey given the proper instructions, your GRC application can be configured into a system that works for your organization&#39;s needs.</p>
<p>Steve is the internal auditor for Trust Company of America (TCA), a small financial services firm based in Denver, Colorado. TCA is part of the E*TRADE family of companies and manages over $18B in assets on behalf of its customers.  In that business, the company has to deal with many different types of risks.</p>
<p>When TCA began its GRC journey, it had a fragmented approach. Siloed IT, HR, Finance and other departments were all doing a good enough job, but they weren’t under the same governance, risk, and compliance umbrella. Steve says that to exploit the opportunities of the next industrial revolution, TCA needed an integrated risk management strategy that kept pace with fast technological change.</p>
<p>Steve admits that TCA wasn’t clear enough initially about its maturity level, but the company quickly learned as it went through a comprehensive planning process.  One of his biggest takeaways is that “you have to go slow in order to go fast.”  Planning is critical for success and has to involve all key stakeholders.  Business and operations must agree on the implementation strategy and the roadmap.  And, your integration plan must align with your existing infrastructure.</p>
<p>During the presentation, Developer David Stoner demonstrated the first areas that TCA has tackled. These included audit and issue creation, Security Incident Response Team (SIRT) ticket creation with workflow automation from email to ticket, vendor management review and approval workflows, business continuity planning (BCP), and disaster recovery planning (DRP).</p>
<p>Steve also explains that &#34;you&#39;re never going to hit the end state&#34;, saying that you always have to adapt to new things.  An effective program isn&#39;t built overnight – it&#39;s an ongoing journey.</p>
<p>Some of Steve’s key dos and don’ts for a successful GRC implementation include:</p>
<ul><li><em>Don’t</em>’ just throw a GRC tool at the problem and expect it to solve your noncompliance issues. It’s an automation tool. Good information security programs are founded on people and process.</li><li><em>Don&#39;t</em> expand your GRC program until you&#39;ve learned lessons from the first phase of the project</li><li><em>Don’t </em>forget to communicate the importance of a GRC program in driving business performance</li><li><em>Do</em> establish a GRC team with solid project management expertise</li><li><em>Do </em>establish clear lines of accountability and responsibility</li><li><em>Do</em> keep your GRC program relevant by constantly revising objectives as your business changes</li></ul>
<p>Steve finished up with some thoughts on next steps.  TCA is continuing to roll out parts of the GRC portfolio and even features of each GRC application.  Integrating GRC with change processes is at the top of their list.  But, Steve’s not worried – he knows that GRC is a marathon, not a sprint, and that planning is the key to success.</p>
<p>Download Steve’s <a href="community?id&#61;community_article&amp;sys_id&#61;54c90462dbf557002328f3231f96191d" rel="nofollow">K18 presentation</a> or the attached handout with his Do&#39;s and Don&#39;ts, top takeaways, and more.</p>
<p> </p>
<p>Learn more about ServiceNow GRC at <a href="https://www.servicenow.com/products/governance-risk-and-compliance.html" rel="nofollow">www.servicenow.com/grc</a></p>