---
title: "So you want to Integrate with ServiceNow and list it on the store"
date: 2018-09-04T10:21:15.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=47d90c5edb1cef448e7c2926ca96190e"
---
<h3>A bit of background:</h3>
<p>Back in late 2012, I met a man named David Loo. David was a visionary, a ServiceNow sensei, and a human suffering from chronic email overload (he also co-founded ServiceNow...but...piff...big whooop). David had a dream that, one day, he could arrive to work, open his laptop, and start banging away on the platform code that we all know and love today....WITHOUT immediately being buried by hundreds of customer/partner/developer and employee emails asking for help with developing integrations. When he wasn&#39;t trying to answer every one of those emails, he was then being hounded by our support team begging for help solving problems that customers had reported, blaming 3rd party integrations for sending their customizations on the express train to Borktown.  </p>
<p>Enter the Certified Integration Program, a program designed to help promote and enforce 3rd party integration and application development best practices. The notion that spawned the ServiceNow Store Certification process, and eventually <a href="https://store.servicenow.com" rel="nofollow">https://store.servicenow.com</a> - to think, one person&#39;s inbox problems lead to a marketplace for trusted applications that solve amazingly complex business problems. </p>
<p>6 years later and some 500&#43; submissions to the certification process and it&#39;s long past time for me to share with you all, what you need to be doing to successfully integrate with ServiceNow and list that on the store...and you know...have customers download and use it.</p>
<h3>The most important considerations when integrating to ServiceNow:</h3>
<p>What data are you bringing into/out-of the platform? Where is that data going to live? What is that data going to do? (pardon any Kindergarten Cop references those questions evoke). </p>
<p>More to the point, DO NOT simply create a one-way integration and deposit your incidents/alerts/alarms/summaries/comments/whatevers to the incident/problem/case/whatever table. </p>
<p>&#34;Data dumping&#34; is not an integration. It&#39;s abusing the wonderful REST API and throwing your data over the fence to another system of record without much rhyme nor reason. No one wants another alert to incident integration...trust me...those days are gone. Incident sprawl is the new email sprawl....oh and you&#39;re creating additional emails too...but let&#39;s move past that for a moment. The trick here is to:</p>
<p style="padding-left: 30px; text-align: justify;">Bring <strong>actionable </strong>data into ServiceNow, <strong>automatically qualify </strong>that data and then <strong>do something meaningful </strong>with that data. In other words: <span style="text-decoration: underline;"><strong>SOLVE A REAL BUSINESS PROBLEM</strong></span> with your integration.</p>
<p style="text-align: left;">For example. Acme Alerts Inc. wants to integrate with ServiceNow because they are tired of hearing their customers asking for this. In an awful world, in which nobody cares about overworked sys admins, this is how an integration would play out:</p>
<ol><li>Alert is created in Acme system</li><li>Acme sends Alert data to ServiceNow incident table</li><li>Incident ticket is created by Acme with Alert Number, short description, category, and comments</li><li>The End</li><li>David Gatley consumes scotch and weeps for humanity</li></ol>
<p>On the other hand, here&#39;s what your integration COULD do:</p>
<ol><li>Alert is created in Acme</li><li>Acme sends Alert data to ServiceNow</li><li><ol><li>Acme also includes their subject matter expertise as metadata and helps auto-prioritize incident</li><li>Acme knows that this alert is special and corresponding action needs to be taken to resolve this incident - so <strong>TASKS</strong> are created to track the work that needs to happen</li><li>Acme also know those <strong>tasks</strong> are going to be prescriptive and need <strong>approvals</strong> so Acme creates a corresponding <strong>WORKFLOW </strong>to automate fulfillment of those <strong>tasks </strong>and potentially even <strong>ORCHESTRATE </strong>some changes in the customer environment to more quickly resolve the incident</li><li>Acme updates corresponding incident/problem/change records to track work that has been done and prove audit and compliance requirements.</li><li>Acme calls back to Acme from within steps 3 and 4 to keep both systems current</li><li>Acme displays the records that is cannot be resolved and requires escalation in a custom <strong>Report </strong>or <strong>Dashboard </strong>for executive level viewing to REDUCE RISK FOR THE CUSTOMER (BIG WIN AND BIG VALUE FOR THE SERVICENOW CUSTOMER)</li><li>Acme sells this integration (which now also includes an application built on the ServiceNow platform with all those <strong>bolded</strong> words above as application files) ON THE STORE</li><li>Acme profits</li><li>Acme releases a press release and praises how wonderful they are at making <em><span style="text-decoration: underline;"><strong>the world of work, work better for our mutual customers</strong></span></em></li><li>David Gatley sleeps well at night</li></ol>
</li></ol>
<p>What&#39;s outlined above is not complex, I&#39;ve seen this done in several days with one average ServiceNow certified Application Developer. For brand new developers on the platform, this shouldn&#39;t take more than a sprint or two to complete. Seriously.</p>
<p>What&#39;s better, this approach sets you up on a path to become a <a href="community?id&#61;community_blog&amp;sys_id&#61;e0866d42dbf31b809d612926ca9619a7" rel="nofollow">TOP ISV PARTNER</a> </p>
<h3>In Summary (TLDR):</h3>
<p>If you want to build an integration on the ServiceNow store, here&#39;s what you need to do:</p>
<ol><li>Create a bi-directional integration to ServiceNow (ideally using REST)</li><li>SOLVE A REAL BUSINESS PROBLEM WITH YOUR INTEGRATION</li><li>Drive measurable value for the customer downloading your integration from the store</li></ol>
<p>That&#39;s it. I hope it helps you in your path to integration awesomeness. </p>