---
title: "How The Hershey Company Approaches Integrated Risk Management on ServiceNow"
date: 2018-12-05T23:16:40.000Z
authors: ["Keith Reynolds"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=2bdfd880db526b00fb115583ca961952"
---
<p><span style="font-size: 14pt;"><strong>Integrated Risk Management Session, NOW Summit on November 7, 2018</strong></span></p>
<p>Troy Grubb, Senior Manager of Information Security at Hershey&#39;s Company, had a chance to sit down with attendees of the NOW Summit in Washington DC on November 7th to discuss their Governance, Risk, and Compliance implementation on ServiceNow.  Troy is responsible for overseeing the Identity and Access Management, SAP security, security architecture, and IT risk and compliance programs at Hershey&#39;s. </p>
<p>He was joined on stage by Cliff Huntington who leads the Integrated Risk Management (IRM) business at ServiceNow for a dialogue about their journey on GRC.</p>
<p><strong><span style="font-size: 14pt;">Customer Overview</span></strong></p>
<p>The Hershey Company was founded over 120 years ago by Milton S. Hershey, and is headquartered in Hershey, Pennsylvania. They are one of the largest manufacturers of chocolate in the world, and also manage many other snack food products, which are sold in over 60 countries worldwide.</p>
<p><span style="font-size: 14pt;"><strong>NOW Forum Q&amp;A</strong></span></p>
<p><strong>What are the challenges that a company like Hershey&#39;s faces from a standpoint of regulatory compliance and risk reporting, and how were things when you started this journey?</strong></p>
<p>I acquired the responsibility for the GRC function about 4 years ago, and we were struggling with functions of audit management. There was no formal SOX program in place, and we had a policy exception program that lacked sustainability.  It was really good at approvals of exceptions at the time of instantiation, but there was no sustained effort to reassess those over time as things changed.</p>
<p>From an IRM perspective, one of the nice things about working at Hershey&#39;s is that we&#39;re not heavily regulated.  We make, move, and sell chocolate.  But we are a publicly traded company, so Sarbanes-Oxley is a big component of our compliance program.  With limited regulatory oversight, running a risk program and influencing people to consider the needs of the CISO organization can be a bit of a challenge.</p>
<p><strong>How did you go about securing executive sponsorship and support for your program?</strong></p>
<p>With my long history at Hershey&#39;s, I was fortunate to have a great, strong relationship with the CISO, and we were aligned on the need to completely rebuild, not revive, the program. He gave us two guiding principles from which we&#39;ve driven our rebuilding from.  One is to remove plausible deniability from our stakeholders that owned a piece of the risk equation.  The other was to influence intelligent decision making.</p>
<p>We are exposing our risk in an intelligent way to the stakeholders, which allows them to make appropriate decisions.  Aligning on these principles puts us on the same side of the table to solve for these information security risks, versus waiting for something bad to happen then asking the CISO why they didn&#39;t solve for it ahead of time.</p>
<p><strong>Was the initiative always focused around SOX or did you start in a different place and end up there?</strong></p>
<p>SOX was not our primary use case. Our primary driver was to effectively monitor and measure our posture against the appetite for risk, as documented in our policy.  How are we doing against that?  We know the CISO control requirements, we know what basic hygiene looks like from an information security perspective, and how will we measure and communicate that to the people that have influence to change it, so that they can make an appropriate decision.</p>
<p>Our first implementation out-of-the-box was the NIST cyber security framework.  We took our entire controls registry and broke that down into 18 key control objectives that we considered to be our basic hygiene controls, such as asset management, vulnerability, patch management, and so forth. We then began to expose those, and put 33 indicator tasks, or measurements, against those 18 control objectives, and began to report those to management and the risk council on a monthly basis.</p>
<p>One of the first most meaningful measurements was simply using our program in ServiceNow from an IT risk perspective to improve our ITSM implementation on ServiceNow.  When we started, we brought the discovery to the risk council that our CMDB had only 35% coverage of our servers.  Now we had Information Security on the same side as the ITSM and CMDB teams, and we could collectively agree that this is not good enough, and work together on what&#39;s needed to fix it, and decide if the solutions are something that fits into our portfolio of funding and resourcing to address in the next year.  I&#39;m really proud that we&#39;re influencing intelligent decision making and making that stuff happen for the first time in the company&#39;s history.</p>
<p><strong>So you&#39;ve found that having these functions up and running has not only been a boon to security, but has saved IT cycles as well?</strong></p>
<p>Yes. The CMDB team, of course, also wants to have a CMDB that&#39;s accurate and that they&#39;re proud of.  Our new metric is 84% of CMDB server coverage, in just over a couple month period. A few executive level changes in sponsorship for continued investment in our ITSM program has reflected the importance of that. </p>
<p>We have become what I was striving for, which is the information risk consultancy for the organization.  I&#39;m not the guy that says yes or no to anybody.  I can tell you what our current posture is, and it&#39;s the executive&#39;s responsibility to understand the appetite and whether those two are aligned, which is the really meaningful part of the program.</p>
<p><strong>What did your roadmap look like when you started? What&#39;s in store for the future?</strong></p>
<p>Well, we&#39;re only 13 months into this journey at this point.  To have our IT Risk, SOX, and Policy Exception program up and running in that period is a significant accomplishment.  Our next steps are to continue our maturation of where we&#39;re at.  18 control objectives are not enough to be considered fully holistic.  We used the NIST framework to define the initial controls to get us out of the gate, but now our leadership is naturally wanting more.</p>
<p>We&#39;re continually monitoring progress and the environment is forever changing. Identity and access management principles become more important as we become more of a hybrid company with regards to the Cloud and on-premise solutions. We&#39;re moving control requirements more towards data and identity, versus servers and infrastructure.</p>
<p>We will forever be evolving our control repository.  And we now can focus on maturing our evidence collection practices for SOX.  We&#39;re working on folding PCI into the program and are seeking our P2PE certification.  Lot&#39;s on deck.</p>
<p><strong>What strategies did you use to ensure the implementation went well and was delivered on time?</strong></p>
<p>Well, I&#39;m fortunate in that I had a strong relationship with the CISO and CIO to start with.  It was key to know that there were clearly defined expectations up front.  And being aligned on the fundamental mission, removing plausible deniability and informing intelligent decision making.  Previous efforts spent a lot of time and money on things that were not meaningful to the stakeholders.  With a shared vision and mission, we were able to fix that.</p>
<p><strong>Final question for you, where did you trip and fall, and what were the lessons learned from this implementation?</strong></p>
<p>We thought we needed to implement Risk Management and build out our Risk Registry at the same time we were rolling out our policy. It became a distraction and the effort became a little too much out of the gate, when we really only needed controls registry in the two components of policy and compliance module. So I&#39;d say you really need to focus your effort and scope of the project to meet your stated goals.  Think big but start small.  Create the 3-year roadmap, but make sure what you start with has high impact and visibility.</p>
<p>Tactically, another accelerator for our continued success was a breakthrough in recent months on how best to leverage profile and profile type capabilities in the module.  Profiles, or entities, are a unique capability of ServiceNow Integrated Risk Management, and it&#39;s incredibly powerful.  Coming into it we thought the profiles were akin to a product hierarchy, and once set, it would be very difficult to unwind.  After meeting with the Now on Now team and hearing about their implementation, we were able to confidently adjust our approach, and now any time we have someone with new scope in accountability or control, we set up the appropriate profile and profile type. It&#39;s a very powerful way to quickly scope accountability and control selection.</p>