---
title: "Invitation to the next SNUG event in Zrich"
date: 2016-02-05T17:04:55.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=ecbc6a25dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961913"
---
<p>Invitation for the Swiss ServiceNow User Group Meeting on Wednesday March 16, 2016</p><p></p><p>Abraxas Informatik AG welcomes the members of the SNUG Switzerland this time in Zürich.</p><p>All ServiceNow Customers are invited to join and take the chance to network and learn.</p><p></p><p>The aim and special focus of this SNUG is:</p><p>- To welcome new customers recently went live or are about going live and give them a voice. Let us know what you did or what your plans are with Service-now.</p><p>- To see, what the less new customers can present from their environments. Share your experience on a topic you recently worked on.</p><p></p><p>Take the chance to share and learn and to be curious.</p><p>Register today.</p><p></p><p>Agenda</p><p>Reception starts from 09.30</p><p>Begin on 10:00</p><p>10:00 to 12:00</p><p>Welcome and Introduction by Abraxas Informatik AG</p><p>Presentation block for contributions from new Customers joined the last 12 months (Idea is to present about 5 to 10 Minutes) interrupted by a 15 minute break.</p><p>Take the chance and let the SNUG members know what you did or what your plans are with Service-now. Usually a SNUG Member can help...</p><p></p><p>12:00 to 13:30</p><p>Buffet lunch and informal exchange</p><p></p><p>13:30   to 16:00</p><p>Presentation block for 3 - 4 contributions interrupted by a 30 minute break.</p><p></p><p>16:00 Closing notes and end of the event.</p><p></p><p>Please note:</p><p>Travelling by public transport is strongly recommended, as Abraxas has no visitors parking available.</p><p></p><p>Location</p><p>Abraxas Informatik AG</p><p>Waltersbachstrasse 5</p><p>8006 Zürich</p><p></p><p>Directions</p><p><a title="ww.abraxas.ch/ueber-uns/standorte/zuerich/" href="https://www.abraxas.ch/ueber-uns/standorte/zuerich/">https://www.abraxas.ch/ueber-uns/standorte/zuerich/</a></p><p></p><p>10 minutes walk from Zürich Main Station</p><p>or Tram 11 or 14 to Beckenhof</p><p></p><p>Locking forward to welcome you on Wednesday March 16, 2016 in Zürich.</p><p></p><p><a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/community?id=community_event&sys_id=6615baa9dbdc5bc0b322f4621f96191c">Sign up for the event here </a></p>