---
title: "Welcome to Customer Service Management"
date: 2016-02-25T00:48:08.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=bb1da2e5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619a5"
---
<p><span style="font-size: 14pt; font-family: Calibri;"><strong>Welcome to Customer Service Management!</strong></span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 14.0pt; font-family: Calibri;">As many of you know, we introduced Customer Service Management offering in the Geneva release last year. Customer Service Management <span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 18.6667px;">is an omni-channel customer service solution that systematically identifies and removes root-cause of customer issues. It </span>includes Customer Service, Field Service and IT Service Management applications.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 14.0pt; font-family: Calibri;">Traditional customer service solutions focus solely on logging issues and responding to customer questions. But they fail to address the underlying problems — the reasons why customers need help in the first place. Not just that, they struggle to solve these underlying problems because all they have is disparate tools and unstructured processes across organizational groups involved in solving these problems. The result? An inconsistent service delivery, with dipping customer satisfaction scores.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 14.0pt; font-family: Calibri;">ServiceNow Customer Service Management addresses this problem by taking a fundamentally different ITIL based approach. We don't just respond to customer issues but solve the root causes. With this approach, Customer service organizations can now proactively reduce the reasons why customers call for help. The result is a dramatic reduction in case volume and service costs with a simultaneous improvement in customer satisfaction.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 14.0pt; font-family: Calibri;">Learn more about this offering. Check out the <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/community?id=community_article&sys_id=e23c6a61dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961959">Data sheet </a>and <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/community?id=community_article&sys_id=2fbc6e25dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619d2">FAQ</a>. Add in your thoughts and perspectives. </span></p><p><span style="font-size: 14pt; font-family: Calibri;"><strong><span style="color: #e23d39;">Post,</span> <span style="color: #53985b;">Share,</span> <span style="color: #eb7a3d;">Like</span> — Make this a fun place to learn!</strong></span></p>