---
title: "Welcome to the Security Operations Community"
date: 2016-02-24T13:51:23.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=65dca665dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961933"
---
<p>The Geneva release late last year introduced a new ServiceNow offering named Security Operations. It includes two new applications: Security Incident Response and Vulnerability Response which together help organizations deliver efficient security response, streamline remediation and clearly visualize security posture.</p><p></p><p>Despite investing in dozens of security products, organizations continue to be breached.   Security teams are overwhelmed alerts from multiple products and are wasting time with manual and informal processes including email, spreadsheets and policy documents.   They currently prioritize work based on the severity of incident or vulnerability with no context on how it can affect or not affect their organization.</p><p></p><p>This is the type of problem ServiceNow has solved before — providing a cloud-based platform to better manage and automate work tasks.   Security Operations extends our industry-leading workflow and systems management capabilities of the core ServiceNow platform to security teams.   This provides badly needed automation and orchestration capabilities to security teams giving an organization a single platform for responding to security incidents and vulnerabilities.</p><p></p><p>Our key value proposition is the institution of a shared workflow between IT and security teams.   Our focus is not on detecting but on processing security incidents in a highly structured, expedient and transparent fashion.   This has been sorely missing in the battle for cyber security - and we think it is going to help.</p><p></p><p>Let's use this community to ask questions, discuss security topics and share best practices.</p><p></p><p>Welcome to Security Operations</p>