---
title: "ServiceNow Technical Training content updated to Geneva"
date: 2016-03-18T20:32:55.000Z
authors: ["Andy Ho"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=6f6caea1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96198e"
---
<p>I am happy to announce that our existing ServiceNow technical training content has been updated to reflect our Geneva release. You can always find our list of offerings on our corporate website by clicking <a title="w.servicenow.com/training" href="http://www.servicenow.com/training">here</a>. The only exception is our Implementation Bootcamp course which is in development as we speak.</p><p></p><p>I thought I would take this opportunity to discuss the philosophy behind our curriculum development efforts as a team and company. First of all, we strive to update our content in a timely manner after a given release. In previous years it was much easier to update content soon after the release but with all of the changes in recent times, this window has shifted to a "market release plus 90 days" timeframe.</p><p></p><p>In any case, I would like to mention that our content is not necessarily developed to address each specific release. Meaning, if you take a certain course on our Fuji release, when Geneva comes out you should re-take that course. When we develop a course, take for example our System Administration course, we aim to teach students how to become successful System Administrators at the start of their ServiceNow journey. The version of the course should be irrelevant to a certain extent. Sure, we update labs to reflect the latest release but the point of the offering is to enable students to become successful at the topic at hand.</p><p></p><p>When you need to get release specific content, we would recommend that you review the Release Notes that are provided with each release to get up-to-speed on the changes. The idea is that if you bought a car in 2015, when the 2016 models come out and you want to upgrade, that wouldn't need to relearn everything about the car, just the changes that were made. Our "release agnostic" approach to developing content - which means we focus on core content and objectives - allows our teams to be quick and nimble when we need to update content as well as focus time on developing new content for our customers and partners.</p><p></p><p>We will be releasing a brand new ServiceNow Learning Library in the coming weeks. Please stay tuned for more details!</p>