---
title: "Play to Win Social Media Contests at Knowledge"
date: 2016-03-31T00:41:46.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=9f5c2aa1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619ec"
---
<p>Want to win a ServiceNow Swag Bag, GoPro Hero 4 or Beats by Dre headphones? <a href="https://twitter.com/know365">Follow <strong>@Know365</strong></a> for 3 chances to win!</p><p></p><ol><li>Submit your funny captions for the <strong><a title="witter.com/hashtag/know16caption" href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/know16caption">#Know16Caption</a></strong> contest. Most clever captions win a Swag Bag.</li><li>Answer our <strong><a title="witter.com/hashtag/know16trivia" href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/know16trivia">#Know16Trivia</a></strong> correctly. First correct responses win a Swag Bag.</li><li>Participate in the <strong><a title="witter.com/hashtag/know16games" href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/know16games">#Know16Games</a></strong> Selfie Scavenger Hunt. Up to 4 attendees who post a selfie with the most items on our Scavenger Hunt list will win either a GoPro Hero 4 or Beats by Dre headphones.</li></ol><p class="p1"></p><p class="p1">Contest rules:</p><ul><li>Contests run from 7:00am PST on Tuesday, May 17 to 10:30am PST on Thursday, May 19.</li><li>Winners must be attending Knowledge16.</li><li>Winners must pick up their prizes at the Social Media Command Center by 1:00pm PST on Thursday, May 19. We cannot ship your prize to you after the show.</li></ul><p></p><p><strong>#Know16Games Selfie Scavenger Hunt</strong></p><p>Post selfies to Twitter with as many items on this list as you possibly can using the hashtag <strong><a title="witter.com/hashtag/know16games" href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/know16games">#Know16Games</a></strong> for a chance to win! Must be completed by 10:30am PST on Thursday, May 19.</p><ul><li>From within one of the General Sessions.</li><li>From inside one of the Enterprise Cloud "face in the hole" photo kiosks.</li><li>With a Go-Live cupcake that you decorated.</li><li>With something showcasing the 10-year anniversary of Knowledge.</li><li>From our Premier Sponsor KPMG's booth in ExpoNow.</li><li>From your favorite demo pod at the ServiceNow booth in ExpoNow.</li><li>Holding swag or a giveaway from one of our awesome sponsor booths.</li><li>From TheaterNow.</li><li>From within a breakout session or lab.</li><li>At the Social Media Command Center.</li><li>With a ServiceNow employee — look for the red lanyard.</li><li>At theCUBE.</li></ul><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 14pt;"><strong>GOOD LUCK!</strong></span></p><p></p><p class="p1">For more details, visit us at the Social Media Command Center during Knowledge16.</p>