---
title: "Questions to Community update  What weve learned and where we are going"
date: 2016-04-30T03:26:15.000Z
authors: ["lawrence.eng"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=b17c62e1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619ac"
---
<p><span class="s1">Many of you have heard of or been part of our <a _jive_internal="true" href="/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=612d66e5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961921"><span class="s2">pilot program</span></a> in which select questions submitted on HI (ServiceNow's Customer Support Portal) are posted to the Community.</span></p><p class="p1"></p><p class="p1"><span class="s1">In this pilot, our goal was to learn as much as we could to make this the best possible experience. Based on our learnings, we will be shifting to a new approach (see below). In the meantime, <strong>we are turning off the functionality by which questions on HI are posted to the Community. This change is currently scheduled for Friday, May 6th.</strong></span></p><p class="p1"></p><p class="p1"><span class="s1">In this blog post, we wanted to highlight some of the key things we learned and how that will influence our future direction.</span></p><p class="p1"></p><h3 class="p1"><span class="s1"><strong>What we learned</strong></span></h3><p class="p1"></p><p class="p1"><span class="s1">In a nutshell, our approach to this initiative was to encourage customers on HI to post their questions on the Community instead, thereby allowing others on the community to benefit from the answers being provided publicly, and also leveraging the vast experience and knowledge of subject matter experts on the community.</span></p><p class="p1"></p><p class="p1"><span class="s1">Our challenge was twofold — 1) encouraging people to use the functionality and 2) making sure customers who had questions posted to the community from HI had a good user experience.</span></p><p class="p1"></p><p class="p1"><span class="s1"><strong>1) Encouraging people to use the functionality</strong></span></p><p class="p1"></p><p class="p1"><span class="s1">We were somewhat forceful in our approach. When someone on HI selected a certain category, the submission form changed and users were informed that their question would be posted on the community instead of being opened as a support ticket. We tried to instill confidence in this process by highlighting the fact that community questions that receive a reply typically get one in under 20 hours. That's a conservative estimate; today, questions that receive replies typically get them much faster than that. The approach was forceful in the sense that users who selected "Question" on the incident form were no longer given the ability to open a question incident (for the specific category they chose). However, they could still get around this by choosing a different Type (e.g. Request) or a category that wasn't part of the initiative. That's the exact behavior we saw.</span></p><p class="p1"></p><p class="p1"><span class="s1">Based on previous activity, we made some estimates on how many questions would be posted to the community. The <em>actual</em> number of questions routed from HI to the community turned out to be very small. For whatever reason (and there are many potential reasons), people chose not to use the feature. When people saw the new feature, they may have realized they didn't actually have a question, but a request instead. Or perhaps, they wanted their question to be answered by ServiceNow Customer Support no matter what, so they choose something other than "Question" to ensure their query didn't go to the community.</span></p><p class="p1"></p><p class="p1"><span class="s1"><strong>2) Making sure customers who had questions posted to the community from HI had a good user experience</strong></span></p><p class="p1"></p><p class="p1"><span class="s1">This was an experimental approach for us. Customers have not previously been routed to the community this way in the past. As such, we wanted to make sure that no customer who had their question routed would be left behind. That is why we employed a team of Technical Support Engineers to monitor and reply to routed questions if the community did not respond within 24 hours. As such, customers got the responses they needed, but we did find that many of the routed questions required direct ServiceNow intervention. Based on that, we want to be careful not to drastically scale up the number of questions routed from HI until we know that the community has enough subject matter experts who are well-equipped and well-motivated to respond to that volume of questions.</span></p><h3 class="p1"></h3><p></p><h3 class="p1"><span class="s1"><strong>Our approach moving forward</strong></span></h3><p class="p1"></p><p class="p1"><span class="s1">We know that changing one submission form on HI, and adding a handful of moderation processes on the community, is not enough to encourage most customers (on HI or elsewhere) to use the community to ask questions that other community members could answer or benefit from. Instead, we will be taking a more holistic approach, addressing the complete end-to-end community experience, that includes things like:</span></p><p class="p1"></p><ul><li><span class="s1">Making the value of the community more obvious to more customers, earlier in their ServiceNow journey</span></li><li><span class="s1">On HI, surfacing more relevant community content</span></li><li><span class="s1">Giving people more of a choice in terms of opening incidents vs. asking the community, and being very clear on the benefits of each choice</span></li><li><span class="s1">Making it much easier for someone to use and move between our ecosystem of websites (HI, Community, Documentation, etc.)</span></li><li><span class="s1">Building the right incentive programs on the community to ensure that even more questions are answered quickly and correctly by subject matter experts</span></li></ul><p></p><p class="p1"><span style="font-weight: inherit; font-style: inherit; font-family: inherit;">Most of these improvements won't happen overnight, but we are making progress and would benefit greatly from your feedback. <span style="font-style: inherit; font-family: inherit;"><strong>Whether or not you used the Questions to Community feature, please take a few minutes to respond to the following survey:</strong></span> <strong><a title="ww.surveymonkey.com/r/Q2cpilot" href="https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/Q2cpilot">Survey - Questions to Community pilot</a></strong>. It will help us make the next phase of this program even better for all ServiceNow customers. <strong>[Update: the survey will close at 5pm PT on Friday, May 13th]</strong></span></p><p></p><p style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';"><span style="font-weight: inherit; font-style: inherit; font-family: inherit;">You can also comment below if you have questions or concerns.</span></p><div style="color: #666666;"><p></p></div><p class="p1"><span class="s1">Thanks,</span></p><p class="p1"><span class="s1">Lawrence</span></p>