---
title: "My journey with Knowledge"
date: 2016-05-06T03:27:47.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=6b9dae69dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96199d"
---
<p>The Knowledge conference is my favorite professional event. Over the last six years I've watched Knowledge and the ServiceNow community grow as my own skills and experience grew along with them. What started as a small, insider conference has grown into a major industry event with 10,000 attendees and growing.</p><p></p><p>The breadth and quality of the sessions at Knowledge have steadily improved as well. The range of customer-led sessions reflects ServiceNow's growth beyond the core ITSM apps to empower all of IT and beyond. It's tempting to schedule all of your time in training labs, but don't overlook the value of seeing firsthand the exciting things customers are doing with the platform.</p><p></p><p>During my time at Knowledge, I've had the pleasure of presenting sessions four years in a row and sharing my enthusiasm for NOW on panels, webinars, a press conference, and a taped testimonial. I even received the honor of being labeled a Citizen Creator by ServiceNow and was encouraged to share my story.</p><p>Knowledge has also been a place for me to meet peers, collaborate, and share stories. I look forward to catching up with my conference friends and hearing what they've accomplished in the previous year. Some of the best advice I've received as a citizen developer has come from conversations at Knowledge. I've been part of other user communities over the years, but none as enthusiastic and eager to share as the Glide Gang.</p><p></p><p>K16 will be different for me, because last fall — after seven years as a customer — I transitioned to working for ServiceNow partner Numerify, Inc. My passion for the platform hasn't diminished, but now I have a new story to tell about the power of analytics: going beyond what happened to why it happened, and where to focus attention. I'm excited to be part of a diverse team with expertise in business intelligence, data warehousing, ITSM, Call Center, and ServiceNow.</p><p></p><p>My role may have changed, but I still look forward to meeting new people, sharing stories, and learning from the myriad ways ServiceNow is implemented. And I still have the opportunity to bring people together — my favorite part of networking.</p>