---
title: "Encryption How not to get ed Part "
date: 2016-05-07T00:10:40.000Z
authors: ["Robert Fedoruk"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=b49ceae1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961980"
---
<h1>REDUCE YOUR DISCOVERY PHASE AT K16</h1><p>In <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/community/service-automation-platform/security/blog/2015/10/23/encryption-how-not-to-get-ed">part 1 of this series we discussed the feature checklist</a> you should be equipped with before looking at Encryption solutions.</p><p>In <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/community/service-automation-platform/security/blog/2015/11/20/encryption-how-not-to-get-ed-part-2">part 2 we discussed maximizing your engagement time</a> with various encryption vendors.</p><p></p><p>In this post I'll outline the unique opportunity K16 presents in reducing your encryption solution research time.</p><p></p><p>This year I've been blessed enough to evaluate all the primary players in the encryption space that deal with ServiceNow.   I have evaluated CipherCloud, BlueCoat (the new parent company of Perspecsys), Sky High, and ServiceNow's pre-Edge Encryption solutions.   At least one of those vendors will be at Knowledge 16.</p><p></p><p>You, as a representative of discretion conscious entities, will perform due diligence on all solutions.   In so doing, you've read parts 1 and 2 of this series.   The third thing you should do is not go alone.   Prior to or during your investigation of these encryption vendors, I am at your service to discuss price, vendor responsiveness, product capabilities, and implementation experiences, as well as what Encryption strategies are best for ServiceNow to begin with.</p><p></p><p>With my help you have discretion assured, experienced 3rd party to help you navigate the very real encryption conundrum in ServiceNow, free of charge.   Separate the signal from the noise, and get the most realistic assessment of what the project will look like.</p><p></p><p></p><p>Robert Fedoruk</p><p><a title="k-email-small" class="jive-link-email-small" href="mailto:rfedoruk@wolfpackcs.com">rfedoruk@wolfpackcs.com</a></p><p>Eha jvgu JbysCnpx - gur perngvir pybhq guvaxref.</p>