---
title: "Knowledge Session Service Management for Everyone  save money and make users happy"
date: 2016-05-02T20:57:29.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=3bada6a9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96193b"
---
<p>As an introduction to my session <a title="nowledge16.servicenowevents.com/connect/sessionDetail.ww?SESSION_ID=2434" href="https://knowledge16.servicenowevents.com/connect/sessionDetail.ww?SESSION_ID=2434">17BF12 </a>let me ask you two questions:</p><p></p><p><strong>1. Which is more productive — a company that tries to force employees to use a platform they do not like or a company that offers something the users actually want to use? </strong></p><p>You probably think that the answer to this question is obvious. But if it is, why do so many companies use ServiceNow for IT only? Don't other areas of these companies also offer services, like HR services, financial services or any other shared service center? Don't these areas deserve happy users, too?</p><p></p><p>Let me ask you the second question:</p><p></p><p><strong>2. Can you save money and improve the quality of a service at the same time?</strong></p><p>I hope I got your attention with this one :-) How can you achieve this goal? Usually, you get a higher quality for higher costs.</p><p></p><p>If you are interested in learning how we answered these questions please join my session 17BF12 - <strong>Service Management for Everyone - save money and make users happy</strong></p><p></p><p>It is common that most companies start implementing service management for IT. Some of them stop with that. Imagine what improvements to services they can achieve and the money they can save when they expand the scope of service management to everything and everyone.</p><p></p><p>Try and google "IT service management framework". You will of course find lots of hits, many of them regarding the IT framework ITIL. Now google "service management framework" and look for the first hits that do not refer to IT. It will not be on the first pages. And good luck with finding a general service management framework… So is there no way around ITIL? What can other areas outside of IT use?</p><p></p><p>Although ITIL remains an IT framework many of the processes it describes can be used beyond IT. In my presentation I will show you which processes can be used for implementation for all areas. Furthermore, I will explain how you can actually save money by implementing service management beyond IT.</p><p></p><p><em>But Service management is not only about processes. It is about providing services for people: Services that people need and which they want to use. </em></p><p></p><p>This session will explain how ServiceNow helped Coca-Cola Erfrischungsgetränke GmbH to achieve these goals without a heavyweight framework. After implementing ServiceNow for traditional IT processes and developing an IT service catalog, Coca-Cola Erfrischungsgetränke GmbH focused on service management beyond IT. We enhanced the service catalog with services for finance, sales and HR — for everyone.</p><p></p><p>I am looking forward to the presentation and to having a great discussion with you!</p><p>Markus Berger</p>