---
title: "Watch it Salesforce"
date: 2016-05-05T17:51:07.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=781daea5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619d1"
---
<p><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">I have never been to Knowledge.   Knowledge16 will be a first and I could not be more excited for it is a sensational feeling when you know you are being granted a front row seat to something truly special.   Don't get me wrong, ServiceNow is already a big deal (It takes a special kind of organization to be only the second SaaS — based company to reach $1Billion in annual revenue, the other being Salesforce). But it is also the world's best kept secret….until now. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">If you are attending Knowledge16 to expand your understanding of IT Service Management and all that comes with it, there is no denying you are in the right spot.   However, if that is all you are expecting to learn, you are also largely missing the big picture.   Why? Because as of 2016, ServiceNow is much more than just IT Service Management.   It is security management, marketing management, customer service management, and much more.   It is truly becoming "everything as a service"…and its awesome!</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">For my part, I look forward to ServiceNow sharing its vision and future role in the customer service space following the recent release of its Customer Service Management (CSM) platform.   While it is no secret that customer experience is quickly becoming the main point of competitive differentiation for most enterprise businesses, it is also perhaps where most have the greatest room for improvement. Case in point, while 89% of businesses believe they deliver a superior customer experience, only 8% of surveyed customers agree.   No wonder the U.S. "switching economy" alone has grown to over $1.6Trillion!   But I digress — if ServiceNow can do for customer service management what it has done for ITSM, we should all grab some popcorn and prepare to witness something truly transformational take place. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">Of course, my attendance will not be without its own agenda.   In fact, I will have the distinct pleasure of being an attendee, sponsor, exhibitor, and speaker on behalf of 3CLogic — the only advanced Communication as a Service platform designed for ServiceNow and its OpenFrame offering. We do for communication, what ServiceNow does for ITSM — we automate, nurture, record, and streamline customer engagements across the various channels customers typically use including voice, email, and chat. We provide workflow orchestration at the communication level to enhance the human interaction but do so as an integrated extension of the ServiceNow platform.   Curious?   Come to our session <a href="https://knowledge16.servicenowevents.com/connect/search.ww#loadSearch-searchPhrase=openframe&amp;searchType=session&amp;tc=0&amp;sortBy=&amp;p="><em>OpenFrame — Embedded Communications in the ServiceNow Platform</em></a> on Tuesday, May 17<sup>th</sup> at 3:50pm — 4:40pm and learn how you can extend your customer service initiatives (Customer Support, Help Desk, etc.) with an integrated contact center solution.   Of course, if you prefer, you can always come visit us at Booth #1206 to witness live demonstrations of our Computer Telephony Integration (CTI) or chat with a few of our industry experts.   If it helps — we will be offering some fairly sweet giveaways.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">In the end, Knowledge16 is sure to leave an impression on all those who attend.   And we look forward to meeting everyone during the course of activities, sessions, events, and parties planned throughout the week.   In the meantime, don't be shy and look us up </span><a href="http://www.3clogic.com/"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">www.3clogic.com</span></a><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">.   See you all soon!</span></p>