---
title: "Knowledge Focus Group Opportunity"
date: 2016-05-04T19:27:12.000Z
authors: ["Dan Bruhn"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=bb6ceea1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96190b"
---
<p><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Calibri',sans-serif;">Community members like you have consistently provided valuable product feedback, much of which has been incorporated into various versions of our applications and services.   We are now in development of our next platform version and we need your help to ensure we are building the right solutions to solve your business needs.   </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Calibri',sans-serif;">For those of you planning to attend the upcoming Knowledge 16 conference, we have an opportunity to attend an invite-only focus group session where ServiceNow will show future ideas and concepts, and you can provide interactive feedback directly to the ServiceNow development team to help refine product plans. You won't find these sessions listed on the main conference agenda and we have a very limited number of seats.   We are looking for attendees with very specific experience with one or both of the topic area. Here are the details:</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Calibri',sans-serif;"><strong>Workflow Futures Focus Group</strong></span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Calibri',sans-serif;">- Wednesday May 18th 11:00am-12:00pm </span></p><ul><li><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Calibri',sans-serif;"><strong><em>Description:</em></strong></span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Calibri',sans-serif;"> We will show you a working prototype of our new Workflow engine with a redesigned interface allowing for the creation of workflows without scripting.   We will be reviewing the changes to the core user experience, types of activities that will be included, and get your feedback along the way.   </span></li><li><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Calibri',sans-serif;"><strong><em>Attendee prerequisite</em></strong></span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Calibri',sans-serif;">:   We are looking for people with experience using our current Workflow product, especially ServiceNow administrators and other workflow users with very little to no scripting skills. </span></li></ul><ul><li><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Calibri',sans-serif;"><strong><em>Attendee prerequisite</em></strong></span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Calibri',sans-serif;">:   We are looking for attendees with a mix of skills, some attendees that are experienced at writing JavaScript on the ServiceNow platform (e.g. run scripts or business rules) and others that are intimidated with the idea of writing business rules and other script based tasks (e.g. those that aren't comfortable starting with an empty script box). </span></li></ul><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Calibri',sans-serif;">As mentioned before, space for these focus groups is very limited.   If you are interested in attending one of the focus groups please email <a title="veloperevents@servicenow.com" href="mailto:developerevents@servicenow.com">developerevents@servicenow.com</a> and provide a short description of your experience and why you would believe you are a good candidate for the focus group.   If you are selected to attend you will be notified by email with a formal invitation next week. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Calibri',sans-serif;">Thank you! </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Calibri',sans-serif;">ServiceNow Platform Product Management </span></p>