---
title: "K CreatorCon  Killer UX and Jelly to Angular Sessions"
date: 2016-05-06T01:13:28.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=55fde22ddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619bd"
---
<p>Last year at the inaugural CreatorCon I had the opportunity to write and present a session called Building a Killer UX when students built out a front end for a custom, scoped ToDo application using Bootstrap and AngularJS. I had a lot of fun and learned a ton both writing and presenting the session, and it was pretty well received.</p><p></p><p>This year, my colleague Mitch Stutler and I are happy to present a couple of sessions around using AngularJS in ServiceNow. </p><p></p><p><strong>From Jelly to Angular - Mitch Stutler</strong></p><p>In this session you'll take a PPM dashboard built in Jelly and go step by step to rebuild it using AngularJS. You'll learn things like going from &lt;j:while&gt; in Jelly to ngRepeat in AngularJS. This will be ideal for a ServiceNow developer who is familiar with jelly and wants to learn more about AngularJS, someone who will be converting a CMS site to use something AngularJS based like Service Portal, or someone who just wants to learn more about building dashboards in AngularJS in ServiceNow.</p><p></p><p><strong>Building a Killer UX - Brad Tilton</strong></p><p>This session will be similar to last year's session, but updated a bit. In this session you'll build out a UI Page in Bootstrap and AngularJS that will act as a front end for an updated ToDo app as well as build a Scripted REST API in addition to using ServiceNow's REST Table API.</p><p></p><p><strong>Dates/Times</strong></p><p>19CB04 - From Jelly to AngularJS (repeat 1 of 2) - Thursday, May 19, 1:30 PM - 3:20 PM</p><p>20CA06 - From Jelly to AngularJS (repeat 2 of 2) - Friday, May 20, 8:00 AM - 9:50 AM</p><p>20CC04 - Building a KillerUX v2 - Friday, May 20, 10:30 AM - 12:20 PM</p><p></p><p>I'm really excited to be presenting this year and looking forward to being at CreatorCon in two weeks!</p>