---
title: "Seeking ITSM Solution Engineer  ServiceNow Developer at Blue Shield of California"
date: 2016-05-02T21:43:19.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=c88c26e1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961986"
---
<p>Blue Shield of CA is looking for an ITSM Solution Engineer who is process driven and has experience as a developer in ServiceNow. See the full job details below: </p><p></p><p>Apply Here: <a href="https://sjobs.brassring.com/TGnewUI/Search/Home/Home?partnerid=25386&amp;siteid=5192" title="https://sjobs.brassring.com/TGnewUI/Search/Home/Home?partnerid=25386&amp;siteid=5192">Search Display</a> <a href="https://sjobs.brassring.com/TGnewUI/Search/Home/Home?partnerid=25386&amp;siteid=5192" title="https://sjobs.brassring.com/TGnewUI/Search/Home/Home?partnerid=25386&amp;siteid=5192">https://sjobs.brassring.com/TGnewUI/Search/Home/Home?partnerid=25386&amp;siteid=5192</a></p><p class="answer ng-scope position1InJobDetails" style="font-family: inherit;"></p><p class="answer ng-scope position1InJobDetails" style="font-family: inherit;">Information Technology</p><p class="ng-scope" style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Century Gothic', CenturyGothic, AppleGothic, sans-serif; font-size: 16px;"><span class="ng-scope"></span></p><h1 class="answer ng-binding jobtitleInJobDetails" style="font-size: 20.8px; font-family: inherit;">ITSM Solution Engineer</h1><p></p><p class="answer ng-scope position3InJobDetails" style="font-family: inherit;">El Dorado Hills</p><p class="ng-scope ng-binding section2LeftfieldsInJobDetails question thick" style="padding-top: 20px; padding-bottom: 8px; font-weight: bold; font-family: inherit;">Job Requisition Number</p><p class="answer ng-scope section2LeftfieldsInJobDetails" style="font-family: inherit;">7368BR</p><p class="answer ng-scope section2LeftfieldsInJobDetails" style="font-family: inherit;"></p><p class="answer ng-scope section2LeftfieldsInJobDetails" style="font-family: inherit;">Locations where job may be based</p><p class="answer ng-scope section2RightfieldsInJobDetails" style="margin-left: 520px; padding-left: 20px; font-family: inherit;">El Dorado Hills</p><p class="ng-scope ng-binding section2LeftfieldsInJobDetails question thick" style="padding-top: 20px; padding-bottom: 8px; font-weight: bold; font-family: inherit;">Work Schedule</p><p class="answer ng-scope section2LeftfieldsInJobDetails" style="font-family: inherit;">Full Time</p><p class="ng-scope ng-binding section2RightfieldsInJobDetails question thick" style="margin-left: 520px; padding-top: 20px; padding-bottom: 8px; padding-left: 20px; font-weight: bold; font-family: inherit;">Employment Type</p><p class="answer ng-scope section2RightfieldsInJobDetails" style="margin-left: 520px; padding-left: 20px; font-family: inherit;">Regular Term Employee</p><p class="ng-scope ng-binding section2LeftfieldsInJobDetails jobDetailTextArea question thick" style="padding-top: 20px; padding-bottom: 8px; font-weight: bold; font-family: inherit;">There's never been a better time to join Blue Shield!</p><p class="ng-scope section2LeftfieldsInJobDetails jobDetailTextArea answer" style="font-family: inherit;">Looking for a chance to do meaningful work that touches millions? Come join the hardest working, nonprofit health plan in California and help us shape the future of health care. Blue Shield of California is focused on transforming health care by making it more accessible, affordable and customer-centric. Being a mission-driven organization means we do much more than serve our 3.5 million members: we were the first health plan in the nation to limit our annual net income to 2 percent of revenue and return the difference to our customers and the community, and since 2005 we have contributed more than $325 million to the Blue Shield of California Foundation to improve community health and end domestic violence. We also believe that a healthier California begins with our employees, so we provide them with resources to develop and maintain a healthy lifestyle through our award-winning wellness program, Wellvolution. <br/>We're hiring smart thinkers and doers who want to work for a leader and innovator in the challenging, ever-changing healthcare space. Come and help us make health care better for everyone.</p><p class="ng-scope ng-binding section2LeftfieldsInJobDetails jobDetailTextArea question thick" style="padding-top: 20px; padding-bottom: 8px; font-weight: bold; font-family: inherit;">Job Details</p><p class="ng-scope section2LeftfieldsInJobDetails jobDetailTextArea answer" style="font-family: inherit;">Leads end to end solution delivery of small to medium scale projects to ensure the outcome design meets functional and non-functional requirements. Breadth/depth of experience as an independent contributor operating across a matrixed environment as a pragmatic solution leader.   Focus on successful execution/delivery of outcomes, and track record for driving change are critical. <br/>BSC recognizes that IT Services are crucial, strategic, organizational assets and therefore we must invest appropriate levels of resource into the support, delivery and management of these critical IT Services and the IT systems that underpin them.   A key part of that service infrastructure is enabled through our contracts with our vendors/external partners.<br/>BSC IT is "on a journey" — increasing maturity within its IT functions and setting the framework for Service Management / IT Operations organization.<br/>The Consultant V position has responsibility within the I T Service Management organization, for leading the requirements definition, service design, development and deployment of the Service Now tool suite / and integrations with other critical systems. Scope will include a specific subset of the ITSM service lifecycle management ITIL V3 disciplines and Identity and Access Management disciplines. Successful candidates will have a strong background in IT Service Management processes and solutions and possess expertise across the breadth of the ServiceNow platform. You will be working with various teams to assess current state processes, tools usage, define solution requirements, work with administrators on solution design, determine and define integration requirements, code development and implementation plans.<br/> This individual contributor will be a part of the overall IT Service Management leadership team — contributing to the future vision for Service Management Transformation as part of the strategic road map.   This   position is key to ensuring a successful maturation and innovation in the BSC approach to Service Management and Service Operations. <br/>This individual contributor will be a subject matter expert in IT Service Management, bringing previous expertise in the successful design and deployment of transformation initiatives at other organizations.<br/>This individual contributor will, working across virtual teams across the BSC IT organization, BSC business teams, and the ecosystem of partners and vendors, ensure services are supporting critical business objectives, and through the application of industry practices, will drive value in cost, quality, and time to service.<br/>The measurement of success for this role will be based on service quality to our business units, responsiveness, and ability to identify risk and to exercise decisions in a partnership model across the organization (i.e. give and take on BOTH sides).<br/> <br/>Essential responsibilities:</p><ul><li>To define, design, deploy critical IT Service management disciplines across BSC (a subset of Change, Incident, Problem, Configuration Management, Request, , Service monitoring and Event management)</li><li>to co-ordinate and work in partnership with the business to deliver high quality IT services</li><li>to adopt/lead a business and customer oriented approach to delivering services and cost optimization</li></ul><ul><li>This position will spend nearly 60% of the time in development and unit testing complex code for new enhancements and to fix defects for one to many projects based on detailed specifications and conducts unit testing. The other 40% will be spent designing technical specifications and authoring tech. design documents for multiple projects.</li><li>To ensure that the joint IT services are aligned to the business needs and actively support them</li><li>Ensure that IT services underpin the business processes</li></ul><ul><li>Act as an IT agent for change to facilitate business transformation</li><li>May own, manage and review SDLC artifacts on small to medium scale projects.</li><li>Ensure solution deliverables produced by vendor / development teams follow approved patterns and best practices.</li><li>May make recommendations for changes to application technical standards and policies in support of enterprise architecture policies.</li><li>Reviews and analyzes data to predict future needs and devises enhancements</li><li>Designs technical specifications and authors tech. design documents.</li><li>Designs and develops user interfaces, application programs using the technical specifications and design documents</li></ul><p></p><p>Skills and Experience:</p><p></p><ul><li>Technical education and experience/expertise — including hands on operational experience in IT Service Management</li><li>Breadth of understanding of the IT industry and network of contacts would be an advantage</li><li>Connection to IT industry forums to maintain perspective of future innovation</li><li>Understanding of ITSM in other (related) industries and evolution of technologies to support "running the business of IT"</li><li>Excellent human relations and verbal/written communication skills</li><li>Effective negotiation skills — internal and external</li><li>Ability to effectively present information, business case, change recommendations and respond to questions from groups of managers and customers</li><li>Business experience and familiarity with overall business operations within functional area</li><li>Knowledge of automated systems design and development processes</li><li>Excellent analytical and problem solving skills</li><li>Effective written and verbal communication skills with emphasis on technical writing and requirements documentation</li><li>Excellent project management and priority setting skills </li><li>ITIL CMM Lean Six Sigma certification an advantage</li><li>Expertise in scripting in PowerShell</li><li>Expertise in .net framework</li><li>Expert level understanding and experience with Software Debugging and integration techniques.(API, Services, SOA)</li><li>Expertise leading full lifecycle ServiceNow implementations</li><li>2+ years of experience with ServiceNow</li><li>5+ years of experience developing and implementing ITSM/ITIL processes and solutions</li><li>3+ years of experience as Application Developer at an Architect/Designer level</li><li>3+ years of experience documenting tool requirements from 'To-Be' processes</li><li>Excellent interpersonal skills combined with practice establishing and maintaining credibility as an expert in Service Management</li><li>ServiceNow / Web Development experience required</li><li>Bachelor's Degree or better in Computer Science / Information Systems or related field and related 8-12 years experience</li><li>Expertise in AJAX, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AngularJS, and Jelly Script.</li><li>Experience in Service now Orchestration and automation technologies and capabilities</li><li>ITIL Foundations v3 Certification</li><li>ServiceNow   Admin/Developer/Architect Certifications Functional Responsibilities</li></ul><p></p><p class="ng-scope ng-binding section2LeftfieldsInJobDetails jobDetailTextArea question thick" style="padding-top: 20px; padding-bottom: 8px; font-weight: bold; font-family: inherit;">Job Required Education/Experience</p><p class="ng-scope section2LeftfieldsInJobDetails jobDetailTextArea answer" style="font-family: inherit;">8-12 Yrs</p><p class="ng-scope ng-binding section2LeftfieldsInJobDetails jobDetailTextArea question thick" style="padding-top: 20px; padding-bottom: 8px; font-weight: bold; font-family: inherit;">.</p><p class="ng-scope section2LeftfieldsInJobDetails jobDetailTextArea answer" style="font-family: inherit;">Blue Shield of California is committed to remaining a drug-free work place. All positions require a pre-employment background investigation and drug screen. Blue Shield of California is an Equal Opportunity Employer - EEO/MF/disabled/veteran.</p>