---
title: "Consumerizing the Service Experience For a Better Way to Work"
date: 2016-05-10T22:12:29.000Z
authors: ["toddzambrovitz"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=107ceea1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619bd"
---
<p>Your apps are only as valuable as the number of users that will effectively use them. Since your business relies on apps to drive the productivity of workers and accelerate critical business functions, you want those apps to be a truly modern and intuitive experience. That's why developers need a quick and flexible way to create consistently compelling app experiences.</p><p></p><p>ServiceNow <strong>Service Portal Designer</strong>, available with the Helsinki release, allows developers to tailor the usability of applications to the unique work habits and preferences of users. With Service Portal Designer everybody wins. Developers can quickly and easily develop engaging app interfaces and portals while users get the flexible and modern app experiences they love. A simple drag-and-drop designer interface makes both technical and non-technical users more productive with less code. Development processes can be consolidated within widget templates, styles, scripts and previews that are all managed in a single page. Service Portal Designer is just one more reason why businesses will get work done faster with apps built on the ServiceNow Platform.</p><p></p><p>Service Portal Designer also delivers cross-device compatibility that supports all tablets and smart phones. This includes the new native iPad app that is also being introduced with Helsinki. Native mobile support delivers a consistently responsive and intuitive experience.</p><p></p><p>The Helsinki release of the ServiceNow Platform continues to help businesses easily build apps for a better way to work. Check out a brief demo of the new <span style="color: #303030;"><a title="outu.be/v7SpC2mQJhY" href="https://youtu.be/v7SpC2mQJhY">Service Portal Designer</a></span>, download the latest ServiceNow mobile apps from your app store or start creating your own apps on a free instance of the ServiceNow Platform by joining the <a title="eveloper.servicenow.com/app.do#!/program/developer" href="https://developer.servicenow.com/app.do#!/program/developer">Developer Program</a>.</p><p></p><p>Learn more about the <a title="w.servicenow.com/products/service-portal-designer.html" href="http://www.servicenow.com/products/service-portal-designer.html">Service Portal Designer</a>.   And post your questions on the community!</p>