---
title: " Tips for Understanding and Managing ServiceNow Groups"
date: 2016-05-11T06:06:20.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=eabdeaa9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961964"
---
<p><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; color: black;">A ServiceNow <a title="tp//wiki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Creating_Groups" href="http://http//wiki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Creating_Groups">group </a>is a container for users that have similar purposes or functions. Creating and managing groups in ServiceNow should not be taken lightly, as many ServiceNow functionalities, such as task assignments, approvals, security, and emails rely on groups. With that in mind, here are my top tips and best practices for enhancing and managing groups in ServiceNow.</span></p><p></p><p><strong style="color: black; font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">1. TASK ASSIGNMENTS</strong></p><p><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; color: black;">Assignment groups are the most common group type. ServiceNow has an out of the box </span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; color: black;">dependency between assignment group and assigned to fields</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; color: black;">. Typically, it's mandatory for the assignment group to be identified on task records before a user can click save. These assignment groups will allocate responsibility for working on the task to a specified team so that nothing drifts into the "ticket abyss." Even if that particular team is not responsible for working on the task, the group is now responsible for reassigning the task to a more suitable group.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; color: black;">From a manager's perspective, groups allow for detailed resource reporting, including what each team is working on, which teams may be overloaded and which teams have availability to take on new tasks.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; color: black;">Some examples of assignment groups are:</span></p><ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; color: black;">Service Desk</span></li><li><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; color: black;">Network Administrators</span></li><li><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; color: black;">Server Administrators</span></li><li><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; color: black;">Database Administrators</span></li><li><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; color: black;">Application Developers</span></li></ul><p></p><p><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; color: black;">These groups can also have a hierarchical structure. So, if you're using ServiceNow for HR, you may consider setting a parent/child group dependency like this:</span></p><p></p><ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; color: black;">Human Resources</span><ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; color: black;">Benefits</span></li><li><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; color: black;">Payroll</span></li><li><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; color: black;">Recruiting</span></li><li><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; color: black;">Learning and Development</span></li></ul></li></ul><p></p><p><strong style="color: black; font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">2. APPROVALS</strong></p><p><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; color: black;">When designing <a title="ki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Approvals" href="http://wiki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Approvals">approvals </a>in your ServiceNow workflows, you have the option to select user approval or group approval. I highly recommend using group approvals as much as possible since it allows you to add or remove members from a group without any development. Even if this group only contains one person, it's still a preferred method. You can also create custom groups for approving any process. A CAB (Change Advisory Board) group may be needed to approve high risk changes.</span></p><p></p><p><strong style="color: black; font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">3. SECURITY</strong></p><p><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; color: black;">As a best practice, ServiceNow recommends never assigning roles (permissions) directly to a user. Instead, it recommends creating a group to which you can assign roles. A group can have as many roles as needed, and ServiceNow Admins can define those roles using the <a title="ki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Using_Access_Control_Rules" href="http://wiki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Using_Access_Control_Rules">Access Control List (ACLs)</a>. The ACLs allow you to set read, write, create and delete access for fields data, records and tables. With this granular security ability, you may need to create additional groups for elevated permissions.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; color: black;">Examples of applying roles to groups include:</span></p><p></p><ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; color: black;">ITIL vs. ITIL Admin: ITIL has basic read/write capabilities whereas ITIL admin has an elevated level that includes delete. Typically we see the ITIL role assigned to groups such as Service Desk, Network Administrators, System Administrators, etc. while the ITIL Admin is usually assigned to a managers group, such as IT Managers, that contains each ITIL group's functional manager.</span></li><li><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; color: black;">Knowledge vs. Knowledge Admin: The Knowledge role is able to create, edit and review articles, while the Knowledge Admin role is also able to publish and retire articles. In this case, a hypothetical group called Technical Writers might have the Knowledge role while a Content Manager group might have the Knowledge Admin role.</span></li></ul><p></p><p><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; color: black;">You can </span><a href="http://wiki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Base_System_Roles"><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; color: black;">refer to the ServiceNow Wiki</span></a><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; color: black;"> for a more detailed description of each out of the box role.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; color: black;">Using groups can also improve security by limiting Catalog Items displayed on the Service Catalog or restricting visibility of certain reports for specified groups.</span></p><p></p><p><strong style="color: black; font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">4. EMAILS</strong></p><p><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; color: black;">The last type of group to consider is email notification groups, which are most commonly used in task assignments. You can use these groups to automatically send an email letting users know that a task has been assigned to their group and is now waiting to be assigned to an individual.</span></p><p></p><p><strong style="color: black; font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">5. ENHANCING GROUPS</strong></p><p><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; color: black;">Here are the recommended fields to fill out when populating group information:</span></p><ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; color: black;"><strong>Name</strong>: This one is fairly obvious, but you will want to give your group a name.</span></li><li><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; color: black;"><strong>Manager</strong>: Setting a group manager allows the system to reference that individual for other processes.</span></li><li><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; color: black;"><strong>Email</strong>: If you fill out email, any group emails will send to this address instead of individual users in that group. Unfortunately, distribution lists without a fully qualified email address will not work.</span></li><li><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; color: black;"><strong>Parent</strong>: If you are setting up a group hierarchy like in the HR example above, you will need to add a parent group name that already exists.</span></li></ul><p style="margin-left: .5in;"><strong> </strong></p><p><strong style="color: black; font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';"><span __jive_emoticon_name="check" __jive_macro_name="emoticon" class="jive_macro_emoticon jive_emote jive_macro" data-renderedposition="1260.9375_8_16_16" src="/8.0.1.35b65d4/images/emoticons/check.png"></span> 6. AUTOMATION TIP: MANAGING USERS AND GROUPS USING A SERVICE CATALOG ITEM</strong></p><p><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; color: black;">Managing LDAP groups is out of the realm of ServiceNow administration. For manually created groups, I usually suggest creating a Service Catalog item called "Add/Remove user in ServiceNow group," which will do all of the management autonomously. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; color: black;">To create this catalog item, you'll need to have at the very least a mandatory reference or list variable referencing the user table and a reference to the group table. Other variables such as business reason are optional and can be added for your process. Once the requester fills out all of the other necessary details, he or she will order the request. The first step in the workflow is to send an approval to the group manager. Once approved, the user(s) will be added to the group requested via a workflow script. If rejected, no action is taken and the requester receives an email.</span></p><p><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; color: black;">This method removes much of the manual maintenance from the ServiceNow administrator and provides a "paper trail" for when that user was added or removed and why.</span></p>