---
title: "Whats New for ITOM Event Management in Helsinki"
date: 2016-06-07T20:18:02.000Z
authors: ["eric.szonyi"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=a72de6e5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96197b"
---
<p><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: Calibri;">With the recent release of Helsinki, we are excited to talk about some of the new features and functionality we've added to the ITOM Event Management product ! In Helsinki, we've introduced the following:</span></p><p></p><p><strong style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: Calibri;">JavaScript Connectors</strong></p><p><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: Calibri;">As a reminder, connectors are our out-of-box mechanism for bringing events in from the various element managers or monitoring tools. Since these connectors were originally migrated from the ServiceWatch product, they used the Groovy language. We have now introduced Javascript connector support and all new connectors will be written in JS. No more need to learn a second language !</span></p><p></p><p><strong style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: Calibri;">Hyperic Connector</strong></p><p><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: Calibri;">We've added an out-of-box connector for the vRealize Hyperic monitoring product.</span></p><p></p><p><strong style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: Calibri;">Alert correlation</strong></p><p><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: Calibri;">This is a powerful feature that enables you to write simple or advanced rules to correlate alerts and ultimately reduce noise in your alert console and reduce the number of tickets that may be automatically created. You define a primary and secondary alert and you will only see the primary alert in the console. The secondary (or correlated) alerts are available when you open the primary alert. A classic example is having a ESX server alert as the primary alert and guest VM alerts as secondary alerts. This feature can leverage CMDB relationships and offers an advanced function to write a script if your use case is more complex.</span></p><p></p><p><strong style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: Calibri;">Bi-Directional Connectors</strong></p><p><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: Calibri;">Customers asked for bi-directional communication between Event Management and element managers. We built a framework for this using Javascript and provided an out-of-box working example with Microsoft SCOM. We will trigger an update whenever there is a change to an alert and you can use the script to specify what information to send back to the source.</span></p><p></p><p><strong style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: Calibri;">Severity SLA</strong></p><p><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: Calibri;">The platform has had a powerful SLA capability for years that is typically used for Incident and Service Requests. As of Helsinki, we have provided the ability to leverage this SLA tracking for the state of configuration items. We will track the severity of CI's that you specify (ex. all Business Services) and then you can build SLA definitions based on this table. For instance, the SLA start will be triggered by Major or Critical severity and the SLA stop will be triggered by an Informational or Clear severity. Standard or Performance Analytics can be used to report on the SLA information.</span></p><p></p><p><strong style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: Calibri;">Technical Business Services</strong></p><p><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: Calibri;">In addition to Discovered Business Services which come from Service Mapping, we've introduced a new type of service — Technical Business Service. This service type is comprised of a filter applied to the CMDB. Examples may include All Tomcat Servers, MySQL servers US, etc. These services can be displayed in the Event Management dashboard with status based on severity, similar to a Discovered Business Service. Just another way to view the health of your environment !</span></p><p></p><p><strong style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: Calibri;">Dashboards based on PA</strong></p><p><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: Calibri;">Performance Analytics can add significant value to the platform by analyzing data and KPI's with enormous flexibility. We have added a Performance Analytics dashboard specifically for Event Management with pre-configured KPI's and additional insight into Event Management statistics and the health of services. This feature is available in Helsinki for customers of Event Management and Performance Analytics.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: Calibri;">We are excited about the Helsinki release and will continue to innovate to make our Event Management product provide huge value to your organization !</span></p>