---
title: "The Cloudcast MultiInstance vs MultiTenancy in SaaS"
date: 2016-07-19T17:14:43.000Z
authors: ["allan.leinwand"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=a34ea6addbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961967"
---
<p>I was recently a guest on the Cloudcast hosted by Brian Gracely. You can hear this new podcast here:</p><p></p><p><a href="http://www.thecloudcast.net/2016/07/the-cloudcast-259-multi-instance-vs.html?m=1" title="http://www.thecloudcast.net/2016/07/the-cloudcast-259-multi-instance-vs.html?m=1">The Cloudcast: The Cloudcast #259 - Multi-Instance vs. Multi-Tenancy in SaaS</a></p><p></p><p>It was a great wide-ranging conversation and we covered a lot of topics in this 30 minute podcast. Here are the show notes to give you an idea of what we discussed:</p><p></p><ol><li>Welcome to the show. Tell us a little bit about your background (lots of interesting companies and roles) and what you're focused on at ServiceNow today.   [Maybe talk a little about what excites you about Enterprise apps vs. Consumer apps (e.g. Zynga)</li><li><span style="line-height: 1.5;">Technologists (mostly IT Ops) tend to be drawn to IaaS services because it looks like their current data center and there are lots of moving parts. SaaS (and to some extent PaaS) gets less attention because SaaS is supposed to hide complexity. What are the basics that many companies miss or don't understand?</span></li><li>You recently wrote a blog about Enterprise Cloud and Multi-Instance vs. Multi-Tenancy. Don't things like VMs or Containers provide enough abstraction on compute resources?</li><li>What are the realities of Security in a Multi-Instance vs. Multi-Tenancy environment, especially as it relates to audit and compliance and potential hacking?</li><li>ServiceNow lives at the intersection of ITIL and DevOps - essentially the transition that many companies are trying to make with their applications and operations. How much of these transitions are the tools/platforms vs. people vs. architectures?</li><li>What is your guidance to IT teams and developers as they start using the cloud more, or integrating new applications into their business?</li></ol><p></p><p>I hope you enjoy listening to the podcast as much as I enjoyed speaking with Brian!</p>