---
title: "Attaching an Excel file of a report to an email notification"
date: 2016-07-27T21:57:49.000Z
authors: ["bianca.vaccarini"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=abfde62ddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961921"
---
<p>Reporting in ServiceNow allows you to measure the success of your efforts across the different functions. You can report on the state of your incidents, views on your knowledge base articles, status on your projects and more. Once you have your reports finalized, there's a good chance you will need to send them to other teams, higher-ups and organization leads. Where one option would be to just give them access to the report, that is not always ideal as some level of employees strictly use email or don't have the training or experience to navigate their way into the reports. This is where being able to <a title="i.service-now.com/kb_view.do?sysparm_article=KB0596145" href="https://hi.service-now.com/kb_view.do?sysparm_article=KB0596145">share reports via an email notifications</a> would be handy.</p><p></p><p>By default, email notifications will attach a report result as a .PDF. PDFs are great if the recipient of the report is a manager, or a higher-up in that they will not be using the data for anything besides review. For others, there's a need to be able to use the data represented in the email notification for means to a great cause for the business. For example, let's say you are managing the incident creation metrics and the Knowledge Management team, wants to see the data to compare to their own article view metrics. You send them your report results as a PDF and they immediately reply asking for it in an Excel form so that they can copy and paste the values into their own sheets.</p><p></p><p>You can change the default attachment form from PDF to an Excel to make sharing reports through email easier.</p><p></p><table border="1"><tbody><tr><td><p>For example: ${report:reportID:430363d7db4caa00939f3c8caf961900};</p><p></p><p>You attach a report to the notification by adding the following text in the Message HTML   section:</p><p><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13px; font-family: 'courier new', courier;">${report:reportID:sys_id_of_report}</span></p></td></tr></tbody></table><p></p><p>Changing the default format from PDF to Excel is pretty easy. All you have to do is ":xls" to the report attachment in the Message HTML section. For example: <span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'courier new', courier; font-size: 13px;">${report:reportID:sys_id_of_report</span><span style="color: #ff0000; font-size: 13px; font-family: 'courier new', courier;"><strong>:xls</strong></span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'courier new', courier; font-size: 13px;">} </span></p><p></p><p>Now you can change your <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/community?id=community_question&sys_id=bbe94b29db5cdbc01dcaf3231f96194a">report PDF to an Excel</a> and share it with your coworkers to make reports more accessible and easier to work with across the organization.</p><p></p><p></p><p>Thank you <a title="ayca" __default_attr="74030" __jive_macro_name="user" class="jive_macro jive_macro_user" data-orig-content="ayca" data-renderedposition="476.2641906738281_76.98910522460938_49_16" href="/community?id=community_user_profile&user=49be466ddbd41fc09c9ffb651f9619f5">ayca</a></p>