---
title: "HR Service Management HRSM Application vs Custom HR Application"
date: 2016-07-22T01:51:42.000Z
authors: ["juliegardiner"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=c84ea2addbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96190b"
---
<p><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">We often get asked why customers should implement the HR Service Management application instead of a Custom HR implementation.   </span></p><p><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">This blog provides a quick FAQ reference to address this question. </span></p><p></p><p style="text-align: justify;"><strong style="font-size: 10.0pt;"><em>What is the ServiceNow HR Service Management (HRSM) Application?</em></strong></p><p style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">ServiceNow HR Service Management (HRSM) helps an organization transform HR service delivery by streamlining interactions between employees and HR, increasing HR productivity and improving the quality of service the HR team delivers to the organization. </span></p><p></p><p style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">HRSM offers a modern and consumer-like self-service portal to employees along with out-of-the-box request and fulfillment process automation. An HR service catalog streamlines the interaction between HR and employees with pre-defined HR services across common Centers of Excellence (such as benefits, payroll or employee relations). Once requests are submitted through the HR portal, cases are automatically assigned to a designated human resources specialist or team for fulfillment. Integrated reporting provides insight into volume, types of requests, and individual workloads so that HR management can align services and resources, and identify opportunities to improve both services and HR operations.</span></p><p></p><p style="text-align: justify;"><strong style="font-size: 10.0pt;"><em>Why should I purchase the HRSM application when IT can build a custom application in house?</em></strong></p><ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li>Control and privacy of Human Resources Data and Processes<ul style="list-style-type: circle;"><li>Human Resources cases and data are highly sensitive. The ServiceNow HRSM application comes out-of-the-box (OOB) with configurable security and access controls, which prevents IT from accessing confidential information. This access control prevents even the System Administrator from accessing HR cases, profiles, and attachments if desired.</li></ul></li><li>Autonomous Human Resources Services<ul style="list-style-type: circle;"><li>Human Resources requests can be processed and analyzed autonomously with maximum efficiency due to the OOB table structure. No more co-mingling records with IT, which creates analysis and security overhead. Maintenance of HR services is simplified for HR professionals, so they may manage the application themselves at their own pace, decreasing HR's reliance on IT for changes.</li></ul></li><li>Certified Integrations with Third Party Providers<ul style="list-style-type: circle;"><li>Leverage the out of box integration to Workday, saving implementation time and cost. Take advantage of partners' HR extension on the ServiceNow store that are written to work with the official ServiceNow HRSM application.</li></ul></li><li>Continuous Improvement<ul style="list-style-type: circle;"><li>Allow your HR team to transform and grow along with the HRSM application by taking advantage of new functionality and enhancements that are included with each new release. By partnering with our customers, the HR Product Management team is committed to evolve the HRSM application to meet today's common HR business needs and support the next generation of HR service delivery trends.</li></ul></li><li>Time to Value<ul style="list-style-type: circle;"><li>The official application ships OOB with 20 pre-built HR services. Implementation periods for HRSM can take as little as seven weeks. There are certified implementation partners and ServiceNow professional services who can help maximize the time to value to ensure your business can recognize return on investment in a timely fashion and be assured of an application purpose-built by ServiceNow for HR.</li></ul></li><li>Delegated Development<ul style="list-style-type: circle;"><li>The official HR Service Management application by ServiceNow allows HR to be self-reliant when they need to improve processes and services. HR Administrators can work in sync with IT using the ServiceNow business management application to support a governance model that works for every department.</li></ul></li></ul><p></p><p style="text-align: justify;"><strong style="font-size: 10.0pt;"><em>Are there customers that built their own application, but transitioned to the HR Service Management Application? </em></strong></p><p style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">Yes, we have customers that elected to build their own HR applications before ServiceNow released its official HRSM application. Due to security requirements and a desire to upgrade with ease, these customers have transitioned to the official HRSM application. If you would like more information on the transition process, please contact your account representative. </span></p>