---
title: "ServiceNow Implementation SpecialistLead Opportunity"
date: 2016-08-25T21:19:50.000Z
authors: ["haleysanderson"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=52cd62e9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619be"
---
<p>Hello Everyone!</p><p></p><p></p><p>My name is Haley and I'm an IT Recruiter with Apex Systems. We have a great opportunity available currently for a ServiceNow Implementation Specialist! </p><p></p><p><span>If this could be of interest please reply with your resume via </span><a title="k-email-small" class="jive-link-email-small" href="mailto:hsanderson@apexsystemsinc.com">hsanderson@apexsystemsinc.com</a></p><p></p><p></p><p><strong>Client:</strong> Parkland Hospital</p><p><strong>Location:</strong> Dallas, TX 75235</p><p><strong>Contract:</strong> 3 month contract to hire</p><p><strong>Start Date:</strong> ASAP</p><p><strong>Shift</strong>: Normal M-F 8 to 5. </p><p><strong> </strong></p><ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li><strong>Currently looking to implement Service Now. Phase 1 is a Rollout for benefit enrollment process. Will have several phases.</strong></li><li><strong>Will be working with teams to develop design specifications/work processes and will then be implementing.</strong></li><li><strong>Looking for someone with previous team lead or project management experience</strong></li><li><strong>Experienced building workflows/process flow development</strong></li></ul><p></p><ul><li>The ServiceNow Administrator will be responsible for core system configuration.</li><li>Gathering and documenting user and process requirements, functional requirements, and developing technical requirements.</li><li>Developing workflow customizations, and supporting the Service transformation teams. </li><li>The candidate will be have an understanding of ServiceNow functionality and how all ITIL processes can be implemented in Service Now. </li><li>This includes, but is not limited to Incident Management, Change Management, Problem, Asset Management, CMDB Management, Service Catalog, HR, and Problem Management modules. </li><li>The ServiceNow Administrator will work closely with business and IT teams to gather input to support ongoing business needs for ServiceNow configuration, implementation and support. </li><li>As new technologies emerge and impact ServiceNow, the ServiceNow Administrator is expected to learn these applications very quickly and resolve any problems involved in integrating new applications with our systems.</li></ul><p></p><p>Thanks!</p><p></p><p>Haley Sanderson</p><p>Apex Systems - IT Recruiter</p><p><a title="k-email-small" class="jive-link-email-small" href="mailto:hsanderson@apexsystemsinc.com">hsanderson@apexsystemsinc.com</a></p>