---
title: "The Best Case is No Case"
date: 2016-09-02T04:19:34.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=64bc6a25dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961917"
---
<p>Traditionally, the defining feature of HR Shared Services has been the contact center, where HR domain expertise is consolidated in one place and made accessible to employees by phone or email.   This puts major emphasis on the "ticketing" system technology used to create and manage 'cases' associated with employees contacting HR.   Top of mind for HR organizations; "I need to better visibility to what my folks are working on", "we can't keep tracking contacts on emails, or spreadsheets." They are looking for a better way to manage the incoming.</p><p></p><p>The game is changing. Employees expectations concerning technology in the workplace is being shaped by what they experience at home and play.   At the same time, Human Resources is looking to be more efficient, to do more with less.   In practical terms, getting the right resources delivering the right service at the right time and at the right price.</p><p>Starting down this path begins by looking at how calls/contacts/cases can be eliminated (or significantly reduced)— known as 'the best case is no case'. With that end in mind, this approach looks at three aspects of self-service:</p><ul><li>Knowledge</li><li>Transaction</li><li>Assistance</li></ul><p>The purpose of each is to maximize the capability so that every question, issue   and request is resolved with the least effort by the employee and the lowest cost to the organization.</p><p>This technology framework allows HR to efficiently answer questions, provide seamless access to employee and manager self-service transactions, and efficiently provide human assistance for the times when self-service is not enough.</p>