---
title: "Monday Musings on Customer Service September  "
date: 2016-09-26T22:41:38.000Z
authors: ["paulselby"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=39fd262ddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961923"
---
<p><span style="font-family: calibri, verdana, arial, sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">I'm constantly for interesting customer service new, be they trends, something new in the customer service arena, or great stories of service. I'm going to start sharing the most interesting articles I come across in what I'm calling "Monday Musings on Customer Service." This week I hope to brighten your week with some fun stories.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-family: calibri, verdana, arial, sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">My first gem comes from an interaction between LEGO customer service and a seven-year old customer:</span></p><p></p><p style="padding-left: 30px;"><span style="font-family: calibri, verdana, arial, sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"><a href="https://www.babble.com/parenting/a-7-year-old-boy-lost-a-lego-figure-and-legos-customer-service-won-everything/" title="https://www.babble.com/parenting/a-7-year-old-boy-lost-a-lego-figure-and-legos-customer-service-won-everything/">A Boy Lost a LEGO Figure and Customer Service Saved the Day | Babble</a> </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-family: calibri, verdana, arial, sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> I love how this customer service agent tells the story of breaking from the replacement policy by escalating to a Ninjago character, culminating in not only replacing the lost figure, but going further with an even better mini figure and a bad guy! The boy had to love that, and he's now a customer for life (whatever that lifespan is for LEGO... though I've seen many adults with LEGO sets gracing their workspaces). When the story went viral and onto Twitter, I love how LEGO's dialog continued with customers. Their customer service team sounds like a fun bunch.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-family: calibri, verdana, arial, sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">In a similar vein, i came across this follow-up to a customer service story that went viral back in January. Do you remember the story about the Target cashier who patiently helped an elderly woman pay for her items - separately - entirely with change? Here's the story, and the recent follow-up to it: </span></p><p></p><p style="padding-left: 30px;"><span style="font-family: calibri, verdana, arial, sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"><a href="http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/target-cashier-viral-photo-job-offer_us_57e05711e4b08cb140977cca" title="http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/target-cashier-viral-photo-job-offer_us_57e05711e4b08cb140977cca">Famed Target Cashier Gets A Big Reward For His Viral Act Of Kindness | Huffington Post</a> </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-family: calibri, verdana, arial, sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">The original news obviously shared a great great customer service story, and the perspective it was told from adds to it - that of the customer following this elderly customer recognizing the outstanding service being offered and the impact it was having on her child. And now, we find out months later, as he continues to provide a high level of service, this gracious cashier has been offered a job in the medical field including access to education to further advance himself. Ishmael Gilbert's original response of simply trying to help this customer as he would is grandma shows his attention to the needs of the situation and how best to serve this particular customer in that moment. You never know when any act of customer service is being observed and might be a future blessing.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-family: calibri, verdana, arial, sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">That's all for this week. If you have some interesting stories for me, please shout them out!</span></p>