---
title: "Enable MultiFactor Authentication on Your Developer Instance"
date: 2016-09-29T03:18:31.000Z
authors: ["dave.slusher"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=a3aca625dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619e9"
---
<p>Did you know that you can enable Multi-Factor Authentication on your Personal Developer Instance in only a few minutes? It is true. We recently published a video that walks through the couple of simple steps.</p><p></p><p></p><p><iframe src="https://youtube.com/embed/vM5gDpdD1Aw" width="440" height="330"/></p><p></p><p>It breaks down to this:</p><p></p><ul><li>Log in to your developer instance (or request one at the <a title="eveloper.servicenow.com/" href="https://developer.servicenow.com/">Developer Portal</a> if you don't already have one)</li><li>Enable the Integration - Multifactor Authentication plugin on your instance.</li><li>Go to the Multi-Factor Authentication properties and enable it. Make sure you have a sufficient number of attempts to login without MFA or you can lock yourself out of the instance without much recourse. The default is 3 and shouldn't go lower.</li><li>Edit your User form to include the "Enable Multi-Factor Authentication" checkbox.</li><li>Open the record(s) for the accounts you want to add MFA.</li><li>Log in as that user. You will be prompted to create a Google Authenticator account for this account on this instance. Pair up with authenticator.</li><li>At this point, you'll need the authenticator code to log in to this account going forward.</li></ul><p></p><p>If you'd like to increase the security of your Developer Instance, this will do it. Now even a brute force attempt at guessing logins will still require the authenticator code which makes it even less feasible. Note this works for any ServiceNow instance but I am speaking to the Developer Program because these are my people. Rock on.</p>