---
title: "Sr Business Systems AnalystConfiguration Manager"
date: 2016-09-21T22:13:13.000Z
authors: ["maureenkucinich"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=6fdcaa65dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961911"
---
<p>Hi -   Do you know someone who likes to have fun at work?   Wants to help others learn more about CMDB?   Loves working in ServiceNow?   Then be sure to share this excellent opportunity at Neustar to lead our Global Configuration Management processes. This position coaches a global organization, driving compliance and improvements to processes that ensure stability, security, and control of the production configuration management database (CMDB).   You'll work closely with Incident, Problem, Change and Service Catalog processes.   You'll enjoy lots of hands-on work with ServiceNow CMDB and drive requirements to improve existing implementation and integration's.   Thanks for taking a look   -   Maureen Kucinich</p><p></p><p>Here's the link to the Job Posting<span style="font-size: 10.5pt; font-family: 'Calibri',sans-serif; color: black;">:   <a title="obs-neustar.icims.com/jobs/6223/sr.-business-systems-analyst-configuration-manager/job?in_iframe=1" href="https://jobs-neustar.icims.com/jobs/6223/sr.-business-systems-analyst-configuration-manager/job?in_iframe=1">Sr. Business Systems Analyst/Configuration Manager</a></span></p><p></p><p>Neustar is the first real-time provider of cloud-based information services and data analytics, we enable marketing and IT security professionals to promote and protect their businesses. With a commitment to privacy and neutrality, Neustar operates complex data registries and uses its expertise to deliver actionable, data-driven insights that help clients make high-value business decisions in real time, one customer interaction at a time. Our vision is to be the single most trusted source of commercial insight and analysis for our Clients.</p><p>More information is available at <a title="w.neustar.biz/" href="http://www.neustar.biz/" target="_blank">www.neustar.biz</a>.</p>