---
title: "Monday Musings on Customer Service October  "
date: 2016-10-03T23:46:20.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=54fd622ddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619c5"
---
<p>Happy Monday to everyone.</p><p></p><p>In reading some customer service-related articles this morning, I came across two that offer some interesting commentary on the state of customer service for many companies and serve as the inspiration for today's blog.</p><p></p><h1>Talk To the Robot</h1><p>The first article reports that, from a recent survey, <a title="w.netimperative.com/2016/10/quarter-brits-think-robot-provide-better-customer-service-human/" href="http://www.netimperative.com/2016/10/quarter-brits-think-robot-provide-better-customer-service-human/">Quarter of Brits think a robot would provide better customer service than a human</a>. The headline caught my attention because, while still in the minority, there is willingness and even interest in being served by a machine. This article provides plenty of statistics around what segments of the surveyed population would opt for a robot or artificial intelligence (AI) at the other end of the phone line or chat, but it doesn't touch on the reasons why people made this choice. As the article notes, "Customers today expect nothing less than exceptional customer service and will not hesitate to seek services elsewhere if they don't get it" — no argument to that — and more people believe AI can provide that. But was has led to that?</p><p></p><h1>Personal Observations</h1><p>If I consider some of my recent interactions with customer service, some were great, some were poor, and most were just mediocre at best. These were interactions across phone, chat, email, and ticketing systems for issues ranging from mobile phones to healthcare billing to product returns. Most of my issues were quick to resolve, with a few extending over days with back-and-forth interaction. The majority were entirely human, with some beginning with an attempt by rudimentary AI to assist me. If I consider why I might prefer to work with AI vs. a fellow human being after all those customer service interactions, it comes down to a few things.</p><p></p><h1>Human Failings</h1><p>As human beings, there's times when we fall short — and that's going to affect the customer service experience. The effort just isn't there to serve. Why is that? I can think of a few reasons.</p><p></p><p>Humans are emotional — and in a customer service interaction, that emotion comes from both sides. Most of the time, when I'm seeking customer service, it's not because things are going right. I have a problem. Maybe it's only a minor concern, but I still had to make time to contact the company's customer service department to get things resolved. At best, my emotional state is indifferent and that spectrum might extend to upset, depending on the situation. While customer service agents are trained to be pleasant and helpful in all circumstances, some will pick up on my emotional state and that might impact how they respond to me.</p><p></p><p>Humans also aren't always the most efficient in solving a problem. They might not know the answer to my question (maybe they were trained, but forgot it) or they might never have had to perform the process my request dictates. Maybe we need to perform some troubleshooting because this is a never-before-seen issue. Or I might get put on hold while they consult a colleague or another resource. Meanwhile, I'm left trying to be patient because I want to get on with my day.</p><p></p><p>And humans get tired. I know I'm peppier when I'm into that second cup of coffee in the morning and not so much right after a big lunch. Perhaps contact center volume is up high today (of course it is, it's Monday!) and the agent has already had twenty-five calls on the same topic. That level of energy is also going to play into the agent's emotional state as they work with customers.</p><p></p><p>I've just pointed out three areas where humans could be perceived as falling short of machines. Can you think of more? The bottom line is that you can see why some people might prefer dealing with an AI that doesn't have these shortcomings.</p><p></p><h1>Playing Into the Emotions</h1><p>As I said, my two articles were related. In <a title="w.forbes.com/sites/micahsolomon/2016/10/02/new-for-customer-service-week-does-practice-make-perfect-in-customer-service/#5721cce24eef" href="http://www.forbes.com/sites/micahsolomon/2016/10/02/new-for-customer-service-week-does-practice-make-perfect-in-customer-service/#5721cce24eef">Does Practice Make Perfect In Customer Service?</a>, the author talks about the difference between mastering the technical and easily repeatable parts of the customer service equation (something machines would excel at) vs. the "human-on-human parts." He also touches on the emotional aspects of customer service.</p><p></p><p>His point — and I agree, as someone who formerly ran a service center — that the technical, operational-type stuff is easy to train. It's nearly rote, in most cases: follow these steps, in this order, and the problem is fixed. Customer service people are trained all the time on new product and services, changes to existing offerings, etc., and it tends to be very black-and-white and right-or-wrong.</p><p></p><p>Where the real focus is needed are those soft skills. From my experience, it's true that regular, ongoing feedback — from the supervisor on that recorded call or reviewing chat logs, responses in customer satisfaction surveys, etc. — or mock interaction sessions is how agents get better at adapting to the (emotional) needs of the customer on the line right now. The most knowledgeable person on your customer service team isn't the strongest without the ability to read and respond to the tenor of the customer — and this challenging area for humans is especially challenging for AI.</p><p></p><h1>In Conclusion</h1><p>We will continue to see the rise of the machines as more studies show our willingness to work with them and as the underlying intelligence and cognitive skills of AI improve. For the repetitive inquiries, I'm sure many customer service agents are fine with that trend. We're not yet at the point of machines being able to troubleshoot new issues they don't have a stock answer for, but that time will come. Customer service agents also have the advantage or disadvantage in dealing with the customer's and their own emotions. In the meantime, if you are using chatbots, AI, or other technology to supplement your customer service, how does this survey compare to your findings? Do you agree with ongoing exercising of your agents' soft skills muscles to maintain higher quality? How are you accomplishing that?</p>