---
title: "Monday Musings on Customer Service October  "
date: 2016-10-11T03:31:45.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=18fd622ddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619c8"
---
<p>Today's blog inspiration comes from an article by <a title="witter.com/Hyken" href="https://twitter.com/Hyken">Shep Hyken</a> on Forbes.com: <a href="http://www.forbes.com/sites/shephyken/2016/10/08/six-ways-to-avoid-social-media-customer-service-failure/#75b1e6fe1580" title="http://www.forbes.com/sites/shephyken/2016/10/08/six-ways-to-avoid-social-media-customer-service-failure/#75b1e6fe1580">Six Ways To Avoid Social Media Customer Service Failure</a>.</p><p></p><h1>Ignoring the Feed is Ignoring Indeed</h1><p>Hyken makes the point that customers are attempting to engage with your company over social channels whether you know it (and want it) or not. This is not unlike a customer mailing a letter or sending a faxing (yes, customers still do both!) to your corporate headquarters - and <em>not</em> directly to your customer care center, where you're standing by to respond; the expectation by the customer is to receive a response. The big difference between social media and letters and faxes, though, is the "spectator sport" aspect Hyken describes. Other customers, prospects, and your competitors are watching for your response. If you aren't paying attention at all, an utter lack of response is the worst customer service you can provide. Review Hyken's complete list for tips and to assess where you are, but I'd like to boil it down to   two key points he makes. </p><p></p><h1>Being Everywhere At Once</h1><p>Hyken talks about being where your customers are. That would imply knowing where they are asking you questions and talking about you. Do you know where they're doing this? Do you have an official account there or no presence at all? And how do you keep track of all the different social channels out there? </p><p></p><p>I'll never forget the time Dyson (of vacuum cleaner fame) responded to my attempt at being witty about their Airblade hand dryer product; the comment was not addressed to them and yet they picked it up and responded. They were definitely at the top of their game that day. Tools like <a title="ootsuite.com/" href="https://hootsuite.com/">HootSuite</a> and <a title="ww.sprinklr.com/" href="https://www.sprinklr.com/">Sprinklr</a> help you work like Dyson, to not only monitor channels and aggregate   multiple social feeds into a single solution, but also to determine what, if any comments are being made about your company, products, and services - directed at you or not. Included with many of these solutions are reporting and analytics tools to gauge response times, overall social sentiment, and other key metrics.</p><p></p><h1>Time Is Not On Your Side</h1><p>As Hyken points out, it's never too late to start (or for that matter expand) what you're doing in the social realm. Even if it's to begin with one or two channels, it's a good start. Make sure your customers know you're there both using the channel itself to post, but also through your other contact channels: your website, marketing materials, newsletters, even on-hold messages. Try to pull them to where you have the resources and social media chops to respond. This doesn't mean they won't try to contact you via other channels, so don't stop being vigilant - but you may be able to prevent some random posts to those channels you don't officially provide service on.</p><p></p><p>Still on the subject of time, consider what the article reports for customers' expected response times and what the average is. (Wouldn't we all like to be in the Nordstrom realm?! And any wonder their brand consistently rates so highly?) The one hour expected response time may or may not be possible for you, but the bar has been set. And the spectators are watching. If you can't immediately provide an answer, start by acknowledging the contact. Simply letting the customer know you're there and listening will buy you some time to get to a true resolution. And as Hyken points out, if the option to take the conversation private is available do that as well - let the spectators see the winning parts of the conversation.</p><p></p><h1>Your Social Media Approach</h1><p>It's not one-size-fits-all when it comes to how to service customers via social media. How is your organization serving customers via social media? What channels, in particular, do you find most customers using? How does your organization compare to the findings published in the article?</p>