---
title: "Monday Musings on Customer Service October  "
date: 2016-10-18T01:49:16.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=45cdeea9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961948"
---
<p>This week's blog post is inspired by an article on Forbes.com by Blake Morgan, titled <a href="http://www.forbes.com/sites/blakemorgan/2016/10/17/is-it-customer-service-or-customer-experience/#39c031c5744b" title="http://www.forbes.com/sites/blakemorgan/2016/10/17/is-it-customer-service-or-customer-experience/#39c031c5744b">Is It Customer Service Or Customer Experience?</a> In it, Morgan talks about some of the fundamental differences between providing service to a customer vs. an experience. I would like to explore the concept of customer experience a bit more. If you are only concerned with providing customer service, this is not for you... But if you or your team are charged with managing and improving the overall customer experience, let's continue.</p><p><a href="http://www.forbes.com/sites/blakemorgan/2016/10/17/is-it-customer-service-or-customer-experience/#39c031c5744b" title="http://www.forbes.com/sites/blakemorgan/2016/10/17/is-it-customer-service-or-customer-experience/#39c031c5744b"> </a></p><p></p><h1>Determining Your Customer Experience</h1><p>We have to begin with a fundamental question: do you know what your customer experience is? How well do you know it?</p><p></p><p>This might not be easy to answer for several reasons. For one thing, there's what I would call direct customer experience - the customer interacting with employees that represent your company, such as in customer service or sales - and those indirect experiences that might be harder to list. Let's consider those indirect experiences further.</p><p></p><p>Using the example of consumer packaged goods, the customer experience might begin with marketing. How are your products represented in the marketplace? This is everything from how you "speak" to the customer with the word choices and tone to color and graphic choices. When the customer seeks the product in the store - be that a physical or online store - what do they see? How is your product represented? And does that store provide a great service experience in its own right, something you want your product to be associated with? Once the product is purchased and in the customer's hands, what is the "unboxing experience" like? What about initial setup and use?</p><p></p><p>As you can see, your customer experience needs to be mapped out. There might be many forks in the road and every waypoint must be thoughtfully considered. The best means of accomplishing this mapping is to perform your own "secret shopping" of sorts, exploring and documenting each step of the way what the experience you encounter looks like and who is involved.</p><p></p><h1>Who Contributes To Your Customer Experience?</h1><p>As you mapped out your customers' experience, you likely found there's many people who play a part.   No role is too small, be their work directly customer-facing or working in the background. Consider just the unboxing segment of your customer experience from our example above. How is the box constructed? Does it convey the level of quality for what's inside? How easily does it open? Is the product itself safely nestled inside and easy to remove? What else is in the box? Do you offer a "quick start" option and a full manual? How easy are both documents for your target customer to read and understand?</p><p></p><p>Whew. That's a lot for just the box, isn't it? But you get the idea.</p><p></p><p>Taking it back to our question of "who," we find there are many facets to consider in the customer experience, and just as many people who contribute a piece of that larger experience. Every single person in your organization - and perhaps even outside of your organization, if a third party makes your boxes or any other component of the customer experience - imparts something that will be scrutinized (and either appreciated or disapproved of) by your customer.</p><p></p><h1>How Do You Change Your Customer Experience?</h1><p>Once the entire customer experience has been mapped out, it's probably a bit overwhelming. There were probably some places along the way you never considered and certainly never had input on. It's important to know they exist, as well as what the current customer experience is. And probably every step of the customer experience you charted could use some form of attention and adjustment.</p><p></p><p>Rome wasn't built in a day, nor can you radically change your customer experience in short duration. Start by prioritizing. Ask yourself what parts of the experience are the most important to get right. Are some parts of the experience incorrectly delivered and so far off the mark they alarm you? Do the majority of your customers tend to follow a particular customer experience route? These are just a few ways you could prioritize the list you're looking at to determine what needs to be tackled first.</p><p></p><p>While you're prioritizing, set some meaningful measurements. Perhaps it's measuring by a percentage increase or the measurement might be more subjective. Regardless, establish a baseline and also determine the ideal state. Then, continue to secret shop to validate movement towards the goal. When the goal is attained, secret shopping continues to ensure the experience remains at the level you desire.</p><p></p><p>Finally, seek to build what I call an "experience culture." Your list of experience points includes the participants involved. Remind them of the important role they play in the customer experience. Challenge them to consider what they deliver from the customer's vantage. They might see ways to improve their contribution that you had not considered.</p><p></p><h1>Where Are You?</h1><p>Have you mapped your end-to-end customer experience? Were there any surprises for you? What methods are you using to improve your customers' experience?</p>