---
title: "Real Deal Saving M with ServiceNow"
date: 2016-10-13T23:57:15.000Z
authors: ["Deaddin Edris"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=a91deea5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961971"
---
<p><span class="s1" style="font-family: arial, helvetica, sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">If you are in the IT department of any sizable company, I bet you can relate to this situation. There are too many tools providing information, too many redundant processes taking up your time and too many technologies that just get in the way, sound familiar? We've been working with a leading fashion retailer and they are well on their way to saving over a million dollars with ServiceNow. How are they doing it you ask?</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-family: arial, helvetica, sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Their mandate was to transform IT by rationalizing existing tools and automating manual processes. The problem is, they were spending 80% of their time troubleshooting or restoring services. By working with us and deploying ServiceNow Discovery, they know </span><span style="font-family: arial, helvetica, sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">what they have in their environment, and will be able to rationalize their IT tools which will result in savings of $1M. They have also deployed ServiceNow Orchestration to automate their critical IT processes which has improved the efficiency of the team by 25%. They can now dedicate more resources to continue their transformation mandate.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-family: arial, helvetica, sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Next, they plan on deploying Service Mapping and Event Management. This will ensure they know the dependencies that their critical business services have on their underlying infrastructure, helping them to avoid crippling service outages.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-family: arial, helvetica, sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Here's how other companies are using our solutions: </span></p><ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li><span style="font-family: arial, helvetica, sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"><a title="w.servicenow.com/content/dam/servicenow/documents/whitepapers/cs-transalta.pdf" href="http://www.servicenow.com/content/dam/servicenow/documents/whitepapers/cs-transalta.pdf">TransAlta</a>: "ServiceNow has given us back control of our service desk. ServiceWatch takes that even further — by the time our users notice a service issue, we've already told them about it and we're working on a fix."</span></li><li><span style="font-family: arial, helvetica, sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"><a title="w.servicenow.com/content/dam/servicenow/documents/case-studies/cs-zillow.pdf" href="http://www.servicenow.com/content/dam/servicenow/documents/case-studies/cs-zillow.pdf">Zillow</a>: "ServiceNow gives us a complete framework for managing events and incidents. We depend on it every day."</span></li></ul>