---
title: "Monday Musings on Customer Service October  "
date: 2016-10-23T05:50:52.000Z
authors: ["paulselby"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=2ccdaea9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619e5"
---
<p>Continuing the conversation from last week's Monday Musings blog, I would like to further discuss the customer experience, specifically on the topic of reactive vs. proactive service.</p><p></p><h1>Reactive Is The Starting Point</h1><p>A few years ago, I managed a call center a ago for a major software manufacturer. We delivered support primarily by telephone, with some online support as well. In coaching the staff, one of the things I would say to everyone was that customers never contacted us to tell us how happy they were or that things were going right - that just wasn't the way it worked, so get used to it! Instead, we were there for <span style="text-decoration: underline;">turning the customer's situation around</span> so they would be happy and things could return to running well. Ultimately, though, our service, was in reaction to   customers experiencing problems.</p><p></p><p>In reality, a certain part of the service you deliver will always be reactive. Things go wrong, either in getting a new product or service to customers where an instruction in the manual or other materials is wrong, they attempt to use the product incorrectly, there's a shipping or billing issue, etc. As anyone in the service business will tell you, the key is in finding any trends and figuring out how to either efficiently solve them with the customer or to address the root cause to prevent future customers from experiencing the same issue.</p><p></p><h1>Mining Reactive Service for Proactive Opportunities</h1><p>Depending upon your business model, you probably have varying degrees of information about your customers. They might purchase directly from you or your distributors and sales channels might provide that information to you. Most companies would like to know as much as possible about their customers, but this becomes even more important for service. For one thing, if you already know the customer, there is time savings in entering customer information. Likewise if you already know what they purchased from you, including minute details like purchase date, model number, etc., that is going to shorten the interaction considerably.</p><p></p><p>Setting aside the time (and cost) savings from shortening the interaction, the more you know about your customer - what they own, where they are located, etc. - the greater your opportunity of segmenting your customers into similar groups. This becomes valuable, then, because if one customer is having a problem with your product, and you have X number of customers that would fall into that same category of use and would likely experience the same situation, this gives you an opportunity to proactively notify them of a possible problem (and hopefully the solution you already have). This is the first step into providing proactive service.</p><p></p><h1>Raising the Proactive Bar</h1><p>I live in an area that was affected by a severe storm a few weeks back. A few hours before the storm was to hit, my Internet service provider sent an email. Now, before I tell you about it, let's remember most Internet service provider form the core of jokes and bad stories around service, and this one is among those, so I wasn't sure what the email was about when I opened it. Imagine my shock when it said they were aware of the storm and suspected the loss of Internet service to be likely, but to rest assured they would be working to keep things running.</p><p></p><p>I was amazed.</p><p></p><p>The interest they took in me being satisfied with service was one thing, but to proactively notify me that with the storm, there was the possibility of an outage? To be prepared for that, but also they were preparing to respond as needed? You don't see this type of service from a company very often, especially from a company that traditionally ranks pretty low with customer satisfaction. But I believe what they did was look at the segment of their customers in the path of the storm and/or most likely to be affected by an outage (that might or might not occur) and proactively let them know not only of the possibility, but that they were ready.</p><p></p><p>This is going higher. This is saying to your customers there's a chance of something happening, we want you to know about it, but we're going to respond. I would call this "surprising service," especially on the part of an Internet service provider.</p><p></p><h1>Your Proactive Stories</h1><p>Is your company moving towards or actively providing proactive service? What examples can you provide? How are you mining information from reactive services?</p>