---
title: "A Look Into Meaningful HR Metrics"
date: 2016-10-27T20:52:36.000Z
authors: ["anne_musial"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=eb4ea6addbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961969"
---
<p>Growing up in Missouri I became very familiar with the state's unofficial nickname of the "Show Me State". It was great to hear a story about a success, but without the proof, it was hard to accept the story as truth. This also seems to be the case with many HR organizations when it comes to how successfully they are supporting the business. Saying that employees are satisfied has a totally different meaning when there is data to back up the statement. Today we are driven by data and we rely on it to make important choices in not only our professional, but personal life.</p><p></p><p>I recently read an article titled, "<a title="w.ssonetwork.com/human-resources/columns/my-sla%E2%80%99s-are-green-but-i-don%E2%80%99t-feel-green" href="http://www.ssonetwork.com/human-resources/columns/my-sla%E2%80%99s-are-green-but-i-don%E2%80%99t-feel-green">My SLA's Are Green (But I Don't Feel Green)</a>" on the SSON website by Mary Sue Rogers. This article starts out by addressing the fact that SLAs in the HR space have been heavily debated. Most commonly SLAs are used to determine how vendors are performing, specifically in terms of response time. However, Mary posed a question that I think is critical: "If the HR service provider consistently hits all of these measures, month after month, will your employees "feel green"?".</p><p></p><p>When speaking to customers, prospects, and HR thought leaders, they want visibility to the HR Service Delivery Data to see what employees are doing, how they engage with HR, and how to improve the employee experience. Dashboards and access to data are critical drivers in their choice when selecting tools for their HR Technology Portfolio. Yes, meeting a reasonable response time, or SLA, does play an important role in the service delivery experience. However, I feel that it is not the only measure that should be in place. Below is a quick list of some common metrics I have run into recently. What are common benchmarks that you use to measure the success of HR Service Delivery? How does access to data allow you to shape the employee experience?</p><p></p><ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li>Case Resolution Time</li><li>First Call Resolution</li><li>Escalations</li><li>Manual follow up/chasing</li><li>Case reassignment</li><li>Cost of Case Management</li><li>Commonly viewed Knowledge Articles</li><li>Common inquiries</li></ul><p></p><p>Looking for more information about SLAs in ServiceNow? Check out our <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/community?id=community_article&sys_id=d00de6a5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619fe">FAQ document</a> by Nigel Bell or <a title="ocs.servicenow.com/bundle/helsinki-servicenow-platform/page/administer/time/reference/r_SLAs.html" href="https://docs.servicenow.com/bundle/helsinki-servicenow-platform/page/administer/time/reference/r_SLAs.html">Product Documentation</a>.</p>