---
title: "Monday Musings on Customer Service October  "
date: 2016-10-31T22:02:05.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=425e6aaddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619dd"
---
<p>In <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/community/service-management/blog/2016/10/24/monday-musings-on-customer-service-october-24-2016">last week's blog</a>, I wrote about delivering proactive service. There are some important components to consider if you intend to preemptively address customer concerns. This week, I'd like to dig a little deeper into this topic to define it in greater detail.</p><p></p><h1>Proactive Service Must Be Meaningful and Useful</h1><p>When you strive to provide proactive service, it must be beneficial to your customers. The traditional service model is reactive and requires your customer to take valuable time out of their day to solve a problem your product is creating; not unlike that, if you reach out to the customer to provide some useful information or advice, it's taking unplanned time out of their day. There must be value associated with the telephone call or email they are receiving from you, or they won't take the action you want (nor will they appreciate the interruption).</p><p></p><p>The proactive solution you are delivering must fit their situation. Make sure your customers are targeted for the communication correctly. Don't shotgun a solution out to customers that aren't or likely won't experience the issue you've discovered. Something also to consider: how much noise does your company generate for its customers? What I mean by that is how many newsletters and emails (or "requests for attention") are going out on a weekly or monthly basis? Take the opportunity to work with others in your company to have a clearly defined communications strategy, because you don't want proactive notifications getting lost in the inbox or ignored entirely.</p><p></p><p>And it's never about selling. If the customer realizes an additional need through the course of your conversation, that's great - but you are there to provide service.</p><p></p><h1>Proactive Service is Clearly Defined and Easy to Execute</h1><p>If you are providing the customer with preemptive actions to take to either prevent a failure of your product or simply to keep things running smoothly, the instructions must be comprehensible and concise. This is critical because you don't want to make a situation worse - you don't want to make it necessary for the customer to call or email you because they don't understand your instructions or something broke along the way. A failure and a corresponding call is what we're trying to prevent, after all!</p><p></p><p>Write out the information you want to provide to the customer, in step-by-step format if that's applicable. Have a few people in your company read it for appropriateness and clarity. Even better, have a few people read it who might not be familiar with the product or service you intend to communicate to the customer about - can they understand it? Are any steps missing? Those gaps will also cause customers to call or email.</p><p></p><p>Similarly, consider the channel you'll use to communicate. Is a phone call appropriate or email? If the customer must perform many steps, can't perform them immediately, and/or you have many customers to communicate with, email might be more appropriate.</p><p></p><h1>Proactive Service is Timely (But Not Necessarily Scheduled)</h1><p>The time to deliver proactive service tends to be just-in-time - or, more likely, when you least expect it. Typically, it means a quality issue has presented itself in your products or services as raised by a segment of customers, and you have the opportunity to notify other potentially affected customers prior to them experiencing the issue.</p><p></p><p>Save yourself some time with a defined process. Set criteria for what types of issues might trigger the need to proactively notify customers - you don't want to do it in every case, or you start to look like the boy that cried wolf and customers will quickly relegate your intent to do good as unwanted noise. I suggest your criteria include the severity of the issue and the number of potentially affected customers. Score those two separately, then based upon the combined score, have an action plan for low vs. high scores. Lower scores might dictate having a knowledge article available on your website or a call center script developed, whereas higher scores might drive more direct customer outreach and notification.</p><p></p><p>Consider also offering quarterly business reviews, if it makes sense for your products and services and your customer base. Schedule time to discuss how they have been using your products and services and their overall satisfaction. If they don't seem to be getting the most out of things, use this time as well to offer suggestions specific to their situation. While I dissuaded selling above, a business review is an opportunity to discover if the customer would benefit from additional products and services. This is never a hard sell, it's simply a means of determining if what they originally purchased continues to fit their specific needs.</p><p></p><h1>In The End</h1><p>Ultimately, you deliver proactive service for two reasons: it is more convenient for your customers and your business to preemptively solve a potential issue and it demonstrates to customers your commitment to the highest levels of customer service. With some planning for the methods you will use and keeping an eye open to the opportunities, this is an excellent means to not only provide solutions to problems in a fashion that prevents spikes in contact volume to your customer care team, but also to drive higher customer loyalty.</p><p></p><p>Are you providing proactive service today? What are some examples? How do customers respond to it?</p>