---
title: "Monday Musings on Customer Service November  "
date: 2016-11-08T06:24:16.000Z
authors: ["paulselby"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=e09ceae1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961937"
---
<p>The end of the year approaches, and with it comes time to reflect. I always enjoy looking back at thoughts and predictions from the prior year. Today, I reviewed the Forrester report <span style="text-decoration: underline;">Predictions 2016: The Spotlight On CX Helps And Hurts</span> (available here: <a href="https://go.forrester.com/research/cx/" title="https://go.forrester.com/research/cx/">Win on the basis of customer experience  · Forrester</a>). Written almost a year ago, this report's preamble accurately describes how Customer Experience or CX has roared onto the scene and begun to dominate the conversation at many companies. Let's examine some of its predictions.</p><p></p><h1>CX Techniques Will Proliferate Throughout The Enterprise</h1><p>The report predicted that CX techniques such as customer journey mapping would see wider use internally in business functions like human resources and public relations. There are many aspects of service management, notably around knowledge management, collaboration, and service that overlap with common CX principles. ServiceNow has observed that and responded   with tailored solutions bringing service management (and improved employee AKA internal customer experience) to the various lines of business.</p><p></p><p>When sharing these best practices with other parts of the organization, this presents a great opportunity for CX professionals. While helping the internal lines-of-business develop their internal customer-focus, use those conversations to discuss improved contact and collaboration as it relates to external customers.</p><p></p><h1>CMOs' Growing Interest In CX Will Threaten To Overwhelm CX Pros</h1><p>This topic in the report postulates several changes - among them that marketing would dominate the CX discussion and in turn preclude the decline or even demise of the CMO role. From my vantage point, I didn't see any of these activities taking place either with the companies I worked with or for. What I did observe over the past year is more conversation about CX in general and its importance to the organization - this might be as a result of "CMOs discussing brand, marketing, and CX strategies in the same breath" as the report predicted; however, I did not observe CX efforts becoming better aligned as the report goes on to forecast.</p><p></p><p><a title="ww.forrester.com/Customer+Experience+Leaders+Crush+Laggards+on+Revenue+Growth/-/E-PRE8126" href="https://www.forrester.com/Customer+Experience+Leaders+Crush+Laggards+on+Revenue+Growth/-/E-PRE8126">Forrester pointed out in 2015</a> that from 2007 to 2014, the total stock returns of companies with leading CX outperformed both a portfolio of CX laggards and the S&amp;P 500. This evidence points to the need of up-leveling your efforts in CX - and that will only come from a cross-company discussion around the challenges and pitfalls a customer experiences in their lifecycle with your company. Whether driven by marketing or the customer service/care/experience organization, this is a conversation that should start if it hasn't with a goal of constant improvement.</p><p></p><h1>Legacy Systems Will Inhibit CX Transformations</h1><p>Here is a prediction that continues to hold true. This issue continues to plague many businesses trying to not only manage a single customer record, but also to provide a single view of all the purchases, interactions, and details outside of simple demographics. The good news is higher-level organizational conversation around improving CX puts the spotlight this issue, and onto siloed organizations' running older systems. Lacking a modern, unified platform and a single system-of-record for customers means not everyone in the organization has the same view of the customer and that must change for a better customer experience.</p><p></p><p>A system transformation is among the largest hindrances to the best possible experience for your customers. It also is among the greatest costs in terms of expense, time, and effort to plan and deliver effectively. Headed into 2017, if there is one focus your organization could have, I would consider what improvements you could make to the (outdated) systems (and underlying processes) that deliver your desired CX.</p><p></p><h1>Looking Forward</h1><p>After reading these predictions for 2016 and considering your own situation as 2016 comes to a close, did you experience and of these predictions? For 2017, are these areas of focus for you, or do you have other initiatives planned?</p>