---
title: "Five things to keep mind and consider when developing an HR Shared Service Center"
date: 2016-11-17T06:21:14.000Z
authors: ["klovely"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=23bd6ea9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619c9"
---
<p>Recently, I had an interesting discussion with a customer who had made the decision to move to a HR Shared Service/ Multi-Tier delivery model.   If you recall my last blog, I discussed what that means and technologies that can and should be leveraged.     This particular customer asked a very simple question, what do I do next?   I answered the question with a question in typical consulting fashion.   What have you done up to this point?   We will get back to their response later.</p><p>The dialogue did raise an interesting question? When starting this journey of HR Transformation what things should I keep in mind.   Over the years, I have found the following five things to keep mind and consider when developing an HR Shared Service Center.</p><p></p><p>1. Dare to Dream</p><p style="padding-left: 30px;">a. Create a clear vision.   You are probably saying, "Thanks Captain Obvious".   I am often surprised as to how many HR organizations have been given a mandate to change but have not taken the time to consider or write down a vision for what that change will look like.   An example of a vision that can help guide you on this journey could look something like, we will deliver High Quality, Consistent, Cost Effective HR services to those that provide services to our customers in a way that reinforces our culture and values.   This should be used as the guide post for you on your journey, to keep the reason you are undertaking this journey in the forefront.</p><p>2. Do your homework</p><p style="padding-left: 30px;">a. Benchmark both internal and external operations delivering in a multi-tier environment. Reach out to organizations, in your industry and of a similar size who have an HR Shared Service Center. This will take you only so far as every organization is different in terms of what they are trying to achieve (see above) and their culture.     Sometimes, the best benchmark maybe in your own backyard.   Find out if your organization has one or is building one is a great source of insight what works, doesn't work, what to do and what not to do.</p><p style="padding-left: 30px;">b. Know your own operations.     Do some baseline activity early. Establish a baseline for improvement.</p><p>3. Get buy in from the Top (Welcome back Captain Obvious).</p><p style="padding-left: 30px;">a. Be able to show a clear bottom line impact.   This is not that hard to do once you have done the first steps.   Also there are tools to help with this as well.</p><p style="padding-left: 30px;">b. It is important to get buy in from the business not just HR leadership.   Having a champion who will be using the services is a key to getting buy in.</p><p>4. Don't Live in the Past</p><p style="padding-left: 30px;">a. Map to the Vision not to your current state.</p><p style="padding-left: 30px;">b. Develop your systems requirements as you map.</p><p style="padding-left: 30px;">c. Identify those technologies that support your vision.</p><p style="padding-left: 30px;">d. Don't techno shop. Don't buy based on the latest, shiniest toy.   WHOA! Did I just say that? Yep! As a vendor it is always refreshing to work with clients who have a clear vision of what they are trying to achieve.   This helps making a decision on which technologies work best for their situation.   I am most gratified when I talk to a customer who has implemented the solution and it is exactly what they needed to achieve their objectives.</p><p style="padding-left: 30px;">e. While mapping and developing processes for the future, involve Subject Matter Experts.   They can alert you to gaps in critical future state processes before implementation.</p><p style="padding-left: 30px;">f. Validate as you go. Don't wait until the end to find out this won't work.</p><p>5. Lastly, Communicate, Communicate, Communicate!</p><p>Know what you want to be when you grow up. Develop a management philosophy, understanding your staffing, staffing development.</p><p style="padding-left: 30px;">a. Don't underestimate this piece</p><p style="padding-left: 30px;">b. Involve field HR community about the change to model and their role in new model</p><p style="padding-left: 30px;">c. Develop plan for impacted positions</p><p style="padding-left: 30px;">d. Use a variety of channels to communicate</p><p style="padding-left: 30px;">e. Be open, honest in communicating decisions and progress to stakeholders etc.</p><p></p><p></p><p>So, getting back to where we started, the response I got from the customer was, this, we knew we wanted to build a HR Shared Service Center and needed a Case Management tool, so we bought one.   We know need to figure out how to use it. </p><p></p><p>So if you are ever asked the question about where do I start, feel free to quote that great 20th Century philosopher, Oscar Hammerstein II, "Start at the very beginning, it's a very good place to start!"</p><div style="font-weight: inherit; font-style: inherit; font-family: inherit;"><div class="jive-box-body jive-standard-formblock" style="font-weight: inherit; font-style: inherit; font-family: inherit;"><p></p></div></div>