---
title: "Monday Musings on Customer Service November  "
date: 2016-11-15T00:58:24.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=079dae69dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961929"
---
<p>Today's post is inspired by the CIO magazine article <a href="http://www.cio.com/article/3137404/networking/customer-comes-first-in-successful-digital-transformation.html" title="http://www.cio.com/article/3137404/networking/customer-comes-first-in-successful-digital-transformation.html">Customer Comes First In Successful Digital Transformation | CIO</a>.</p><p></p><h1>Automation, Customer Experience, and Digital Transformation</h1><p>This article starts with setting the stage of how business is changing in the face of Digital Transformation. Along with it, Customer Experience is driving new emphasis on landing and retaining customers, as studies agree maintaining a strong, loyal customer base is the key to ongoing profitability and success. The article goes on to indicate what will prove a key to the success of both Digital Transformation and Customer Experience efforts will be what they label a "robust network that enables a superior customer experience, delivered with speed, agility and automation technologies." The "network" here is the cohesive work performed by people and processes in a company working with or on behalf of customers - this could be sales, billing, service, etc. Considering the customer service aspect alone, there are many benefits to delivering automated services to better the customer experience.   </p><p></p><h1>Reducing Risk of Error</h1><p>The article cites a statistic that 80% of businesses of experience "network errors" as a result of human mistakes. While the scope and magnitude of these errors will vary, customers take notice of these issues when it affects them - which may bring them to question their loyalty to your company. Automation reduces and even eliminates these mistakes that are at the least embarrassing and at the most expensive in the moment and long-term. </p><p></p><h1>Consistent Service</h1><p>Following closely behind reducing errors is providing consistent service. I'm covering a lot of territory when I consider consistency: uniform application of your service policies; ongoing, consistent outcomes; and the amount of time and effort required to resolve an issue. But there's also benefit in removing the variability of an agent's response. What do I mean by that? Are members of your service team always thinking clearly, working efficiently, and in the best of spirits when working with customers? The human part of service can sadly have negative effects on even the most simple interactions, a variable completely eliminated by automation.</p><p></p><h1>Service When And Where Customers Want It</h1><p>The Forrester - Trends 2016:   The Future of Customer Service report indicated the use of self-service support channels surpassed live assistance channels for the first time in 2015. More and more, customers prefer to help themselves. Do the prior two benefits I highlighted play a factor in this? Perhaps. In addition, automated solutions through online portals and self-service are always available. Unlike the limited hours of some customer care centers and the possibility of waiting minutes or more to get to an agent, a customer can resolve issues on their own at a time convenient to them. </p><p></p><h1>Focusing Talent</h1><p>With automation comes overall higher productivity - common questions and issues are resolved by the customer in a consistent, error-free manner on their schedule. The benefit back to your customer service organization is the ability to direct employee efforts to customers who prefer live assistance and/or their service entitlements provide for live assistance. Customers may also have complex problems that cannot currently be solved by automation (but, of course, might present an opportunity in the future to be automated). Turning the common customer service topics over to automation means your customer service team will be more engaged by the challenging and unique issues. </p><p></p><h1>Automation in Your Service Business</h1><p>What percentage of your service is currently automated? What are some examples of automation you use in customer service? How have customers responded to your automated solutions?</p>