---
title: "Monday Musings on Customer Service November  "
date: 2016-11-21T23:57:37.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=b18d6669dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619d0"
---
<p>As we head into the Thanksgiving holiday in the United States, the stress levels will be increasing in service centers not only in the U.S. but around the world. Yes, one of the biggest shopping days in the world (Black Friday) occurs later this week, a retail powerhouse many non-U.S. companies have brought to the their shores. With Black Friday comes pressure on online and offline retail operations, as well as other industries will feel that increased activity, such as shippers ("where's my package?"). Likewise, with Thanksgiving and other holidays around the corner, more and more staff will be taking time off to spend with friends and family and to recharge.</p><p></p><p>Higher volumes of customer inquiries. Reduced staff levels. The expectations on your service levels have not changed. Is your service center ready?</p><p></p><p>Thankfully, there's a few tools that will help you through. Perhaps some are already in place - congratulations! Perhaps others need a quick review and some updates. Either way, these tools will help your team get through the holiday season.</p><p></p><h1>Omnichannel Connections</h1><p>Can you accept and address customer inquiries via telephone, email, web, chat, and other means? Customers have different preferences and will   choose one channel over the other depending upon the nature of their problem. Studies have shown that online chat has started to surpass telephone as the preferred method of contacting service. The positive news there is that chat also is among the cheapest means of supporting customers one-to-one.</p><p></p><p>With omnichannel power comes great responsibility. Don't allow customer inquiries on the same issue to become fragmented. If the contact starts by chat, moves to telephone, then follow-ups occur over email, everything should be recorded and reconciled to the customer's case. Nothing is more frustrating to the customer than having to explain their story to a representative each time they contact you.</p><p></p><h1>Automating Common Solutions</h1><p>Studies have shown that customers often start with your website when seeking answers. There are many reasons for this, but primarily its because they don't always have the time to telephone in and the expectation is that your service sight will hold their answer. There are probably many common requests your business receives that could be solved by automation driven from your website, further reducing the burden on your live staff. Common topics might include changing an address or billing method, requesting replacement parts or documentation, or providing feedback on your product or service. Automating the actions required with these types of requests might be as simple as capturing data into a form, to as complex as querying a connected system for data and returning that information to the customer. That investment in the effort of automating, though, will pay back dividends in saved time and effort beyond the holiday season.</p><p></p><p>Once you have some automation in place, check on it periodically. What is getting used and what might need to be retired? What new types of requests coming in from the live channels would benefit from automation? And remember that customers can be directed from live channels to automated solutions - this works especially well with chat and email.</p><p></p><h1>Knowledge Articles</h1><p>While automating as many common issues as possible creates the most frictionless experience possible, a solution can't always be addressed in this manner. Perhaps the customer must perform some steps on their side to address the problem. Perhaps new or improved information, beyond what was originally available in a manual, is now available. In these cases, a knowledge article is an excellent substitute for automation.</p><p></p><p>The key with knowledge articles, like a good library, is to keep the content interesting, timely, and relevant. Give customers the opportunity to "vote" on articles and provide feedback. If articles no longer apply or provide answers for defunct products and services, remove them. Keep your knowledge base tight and nimble. Customers will notice the investments you make in new and edited content, as well as their searches will prove more successful. (Bonus: are they searching for topics you don't have knowledge articles on? Create that content!)</p><p></p><h1>Make The Holidays Happy</h1><p>You can lower the stress of you customers and   service center employees. Make problem solving as effortless as possible when you provide more tools to customers to reach you and to solve their own issues on their time. Which of these tools do you currently have in place? How have you prepared your service center for the holiday volume? Happy Thanksgiving!</p>