---
title: "Monday Musings on Customer Service November  "
date: 2016-11-29T01:25:35.000Z
authors: ["paulselby"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=0a1e226ddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96198d"
---
<p>The collected experiences and knowledge of your service center is vast - and always expanding. No matter what industry your company is and the segment of customers you serve, a great amount of information is regularly developed, collected, and disseminated - each and every day! But what are you doing to organize this collective knowledge and take greater advantage of it? Hopefully, you are using some sort of knowledge management system. The primary goal for any knowledge initiative is to maintain the wisdom to solve problems, and that knowledge can benefit several distinct types of people and parts of your business.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Your Customers</span></h1><p>Customers are your primary consumer of knowledge articles. They are one of it not <em>the</em> reason you had a knowledge initiative in the first place. Answer the question once with a customer and document it for ongoing, future use to realize cost and efficiency benefits. Not only will customers seek answers online - often <span style="text-decoration: underline;">before</span> calling, emailing, or chatting - but this self-service channel provides huge cost savings to your company over time.</p><p></p><p>Take things a step further by enlisting customers' aid in building and maintaining your knowledge, besides looking at the common requests types. Give them the ability to request knowledge if they couldn't locate a solution. (And if there actually <em>was</em> a relevant article, evaluate why they didn't find it, examining what they were searching for and correspondingly adjusting the search or knowledge keywords.) Allow customers to provide feedback on articles - minimally if it helped or solved the issue, but consider seeking feedback on the article's clarity. If the steps aren't clear, the problem still exists and the customer will follow up with that call, email, or chat you were attempting to bypass. Finally, let customers know when you implement their suggestions - they appreciate the fact you took the time to review and implement their ideas (and are more likely to use the knowledge base in the future).</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Your Partners</span></h1><p>You might have partners that provide complimentary products or services to your own or they might provide some support for your products or services. Just as a knowledge base benefits customers with answers to common questions and procedural information, so too will your partners benefit.</p><p></p><p>You should make it possible for your partners to also contribute to your knowledge base. Like customers, they should be able to provide feedback on all customer- and partner-facing articles. This could include not only the information in their own partner-specific knowledge base, but also knowledge articles available to customers. Encourage them to suggest or even author customer-facing articles. They have a unique perspective on customers and you would do well to capture their insight.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Your Employees</span></h1><p>Your knowledge base is a valuable tool in customer service employee onboarding. Customer usage statistics as well as reviewing common call, email, and chat reporting deliver an initial baseline of the information a new employee must know to serve typical customer problems. If formal education doesn't exist, point the employee to those knowledge articles. From there, teach your new employees to fish by using the knowledge base themselves to answer questions on-the-fly with customers. Because some information should remain internal, be sure to maintain both internally- and externally-accessible knowledge base systems - either separate systems or using flags on the articles.</p><p></p><p>Additionally, service center employees can dramatically reduce call lengths (and thereby service more live customers) when they redirect customers to the knowledge base. This doesn't work in all situations and with all customers, but it's a great option. The bonus is for customers unaware of your company's service website and knowledge base, this redirect serves as an introduction to your online resources.</p><p></p><p>As with customers, ensure your employees are regularly reviewing knowledge articles for readability and usefulness. Revise articles periodically based upon new product or service releases. Remove articles no longer relevant. Customers notice details like edit dates, new articles, etc., so give them confidence in your knowledge base receiving consistent attention and constant updates.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Your Reputation</span></h1><p>Unless you take steps to block it or something about your knowledge base prevents it, search engines will automatically spider through your documents. This is to be encouraged! More people start their search for a solution from their search engine of choice than go to your site.</p><p></p><p>Your homework here is to examine any available search engine reports or logs to see where customers are coming from and what articles are the most popular. Also, be sure to make your documents as search engine-friendly as possible - use best practices to ensure easy indexing and the use of keywords to add to their relevance. The more relevant documents and traffic your website sees as a result of knowledge article hits, the greater your reputation will build with search engines, benefitting your company's brand.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Your Knowledge Plan</span></h1><p>A knowledge base is definitely a long-term, ongoing investment in time and energy. The generation of new articles must be driven by monitoring the various customer channels where questions and issues arise. Likewise, the knowledge base itself must be maintained, with improved information replacing old and legacy data being removed - there is no finish line here, just an ongoing commitment. The payoffs of these efforts to various parts of your business are very clear, however.</p><p></p><p>What additional people and parts of your business have benefited from your knowledge initiatives? What other means are you using to identify important information to document for customers, partners, and employees? What types of activities and enhancements are on your knowledge management roadmap?</p>