---
title: "Browser is still showing old UI  Helsinki  Safari  UI "
date: 2016-11-29T02:46:31.000Z
authors: ["garyopela"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=1e5da629dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961939"
---
<p>I see many reports, and have been affected myself, of the issue "I have Safari and no matter what, I still get the old UI."</p><p></p><p>If you have ensured you have the proper plugins and preferences set, yet you still see the old UI, the following steps should help. This is readily apparent when you upgrade safari. You may have to re-perform these steps, just as I have, if you upgrade Safari. As far as I know, this is just within Helsinki, although it might be wider spread.</p><p></p><p>Another customer found the following solution:</p><p style="margin-top: 10px; margin-bottom: 10px; font-size: 12px; color: #000000; font-family: sans-serif;">Change the user agent string on your Safari browser.</p><ul><li>Open Safari, then pull down <strong>Preferences</strong> from the <em>Safari</em> menu</li><li>Click on <strong>Advanced</strong> tab and check the box next to <strong>Show Develop menu in menu bar</strong></li><li>Close out of <strong>Preferences</strong> and find the new <strong>Develop</strong> menu alongside <strong>Window</strong>, pull that down and select <strong>User Agent</strong></li><li>Pick any pre-specified user agent or select <strong>Other</strong> to use a different user agent string (like "Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_11_4) AppleWebKit/601.5.17 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/9.1 Safari/601.5.17")</li><li>Log out and then log back in to see the UI change back to the correct display</li></ul><p style="margin-top: 10px; margin-bottom: 10px; font-size: 12px; color: #000000; font-family: sans-serif;">Note that if you hover over a specific user agent, the exact UA string used will appear in a yellow box alongside the menu item.</p><p style="margin-top: 10px; margin-bottom: 10px; font-size: 12px; color: #000000; font-family: sans-serif;"></p><p style="margin-top: 10px; margin-bottom: 10px; font-size: 12px; color: #000000; font-family: sans-serif;">I had to change the user agent to Microsoft Edge. I tried safari 10.0.1 but it wouldn't stay. Change it to edge, then quit out of safari, reopen, and you should be good.</p>