---
title: "Monday Musings on Customer Service December  "
date: 2016-12-06T22:26:59.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=682e266ddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961967"
---
<p>This blog post is inspired by the article <a title="stomerthink.com/is-technology-killing-customer-service/" href="http://customerthink.com/is-technology-killing-customer-service/">Is Technology Killing Customer Service?</a>, authored by <a title="stomerthink.com/author/danabrownlee/" href="http://customerthink.com/author/danabrownlee/">Dana Brownlee</a>. She makes many valid points. In particular, I'd like to take up one of her comments:</p><pre __jive_macro_name="quote" class="jive_macro_quote jive_text_macro" data-renderedposition="60_8_1192_58"><p><span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Open Sans', arial, sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">I'm sure technology brings many operational efficiencies and cost savings that companies are eager to realize, but from the customer's perspective, has it really helped or hurt the overall customer service experience?</span></p></pre><p>Technology, like any tool brought in to solve a problem, can have wide-ranging effects on an issue - and not always what's intended. An example is Interactive Voice Response (or IVR), used for routing or triaging calls. IVR has good intent, but the process quickly turns aggravating for customers when there are more than a few selections. The customer service agent who picks up that call will likely end up spending the first minute of the call apologizing before even getting to the reason for the call in the first place. In order for the technology you have invested in to be performing and delivering the outcome you expect without harming customer satisfaction, I offer a few suggestions.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Know Your Customer</span></h1><p>Consider the demographics of your customer. What type of business do you operate, and what types of services and products do you sell? Service delivered on Twitter or WhatsApp might not fit your clientele, for example, if your customers don't frequent these services.</p><p></p><p>Surveys can help support demographic assumptions you make. Dana performed her own survey to come to the conclusions she did. Her results provide details across a broad spectrum of respondents, without any constraints. Your customers wouldn't necessarily echo those same results. How would you personally prefer to communicate with your bank vs. utility vs. a retailer, for example? In business, how would you prefer to work with any given vendor? Chances are, your responses will differ depending upon whom you are communicating with. The same is true for your customers' expectations for you. Don't take the word of a third-party survey, ask your customers yourself.</p><p></p><p>As Dana points out, "... as soon as there is an issue or concern, I want to speak to a live agent!" Consider "live" being by phone, or even chat - real-time and real-person (not a bot or other mechanical means). There's a significant difference in the time-to-resolution expectations for customers when an issue is a curious question or an incorrect bill considered past due. Telephone service will always be the starting point from which you branch out - but at the same time, consider for every communication channel you provide for service, that's another channel that must be staffed and kept operational.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Know Your Capabilities</span></h1><p>In one of Dana's examples, she is chatting with an agent who can't help her and ends up suggesting she call the customer service line. Granted, there will be times an agent must consult another resource for edge case-type calls. It should <strong>very rarely</strong> be the case that a customer service agent cannot answer a question and require a customer to try another communication channel - especially in an order-related question, as in her example! If a customer service agent can't address the question directly or with another resource, they might not be cut out to represent your company.</p><p></p><p>I realize that sounded harsh, but think about it.</p><p></p><p>If the breadth of knowledge required for your customer service agents is too great, there are other ways to approach this problem. If customer questions require specialized answers, one option is to filter customers to the agents best suited to answer - yes, the IVR approach, but remember my cautions on that above. An alternate approach to IVR is to have a first-level customer service team to triage calls as needed.</p><p></p><p>How do you know if you are exceeding your capabilities? Secret shop your service. This is my favorite way to verify things are working, and it's a must when you've made changes. Not only can you test your agents' knowledge and skills, but you can see if the means you have in place of routing customers (the IVR or triaging) don't create frustrating barriers. Because you are too close to the business, ask someone else inside your business or an outside colleague to do the shopping for you to reduce the bias.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Lather, Rinse, Repeat</span></h1><p>Your landscape is ever changing. Your business evolves, customer expectations change, and new technologies emerge. Never stop evaluating the technology and channels to your customer service, as well as how non- and specialized service is delivered to customers. Perform an audit at least annually, including surveying your customers for the most appropriate means of support they expect. Build and maintain a roadmap that blends available technology and future adoption plans with customer input and feedback. And when it no longer makes sense to use a particular technology, retire it.</p><p></p><p>What connection technologies do you use with customers today? What are you considering for the future? How are you routing customer questions between generalist and specialist teams? How do you gather feedback from customers on your service channels?</p>