---
title: "Monday Musings on Customer Service December  "
date: 2016-12-13T01:07:13.000Z
authors: ["paulselby"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=19cdeea9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619a9"
---
<p>Today's blog post is inspired from my read of <a title="rtune.com/author/mike-wood/" href="http://fortune.com/author/mike-wood/">Mike Wood's</a> article "<a title="rtune.com/2016/12/11/improve-terrible-customer-service-business-advice/" href="http://fortune.com/2016/12/11/improve-terrible-customer-service-business-advice/">How to Fix Your Terrible Customer Service</a>" on Forture.com.</p><p></p><p>It is no argument from me that each company's definition and delivery of customer service will vary. In addition, with humans filling the roles as customer service agent - humans who also might be working in poor conditions and having a bad day - the service delivered might be mediocre at best, despite their employer having great aspirations and bold statements around their commitment to service. The bottom line is that "service" will vary greatly and for a variety of reasons.</p><p></p><p>Mr. Woods' article took me back to my beginnings in customer service, as a technical support agent for a large software company. It was my first professional role, and despite it having been so long ago, many of the lessons I learned, both on-the-job and from the company's emphasis on ongoing service training, continue to influence me today. In terms of Mr. Woods' advice, I offer up my own - and I believe it's still relevant twenty-three years later. I offer you the "Three A's of Customer Service."</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Acknowledge</span></h1><p>Mr. Woods makes the point we all just want to be heard when we have a problem. Customer service agents should always listen politely and attentively. Maybe it is the same problem you have heard and addressed hundreds of times, but give the customer the floor and don't interrupt. When the customer is finished, acknowledge comprehension of the problem either simply by expressing your understanding or by paraphrasing. Either way, it is important to allow the customer to share the details at their pace and on their terms.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Apologize</span></h1><p>Once the problem has been acknowledged, an apology should quickly follow. I have said before that no one enjoys taking time out of their day to contact a company's customer service because of a problem. The customer's time is valuable, as well as their ongoing business. Let them know that this inconvenience is not appropriate - you understand their problem, and you're sorry it happened.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Act</span></h1><p>In terms of taking action to help the customer, there are really three options - the first mandatory, and the next two being marks of superior service.</p><p></p><p>Start by addressing the customer on the line. What is necessary to alleviate the issue for them? Can it be done immediately, or will it require follow-up? This is baseline customer service - no failing here! If this is a common issue that is generating traffic to your contact center, consider documenting a response and the solution in your knowledge base to educate other agents and make a self-service option available to customers.</p><p></p><p>Do you (or do you want to) take customer service to the next level? Ask yourself and your organization what can be done to prevent this issue in the future. For the product or service issues, where does the ultimate fix live? Is something about the use unclear (and it could be documented better in the manual)? Is there a fundamental flaw that requires redesign or a failure in manufacturing? Engage with the areas outside of customer service that own these issues to drive quality improvements that will reduce customer service contact.</p><p></p><p>Similarly, if a problem a customer is having might affect other customers, what are you doing to make those other potentially affected customers aware? Certainly you don't want to be the one crying wolf at every new issue, but if the likelihood and impact of an issue is high enough, consider proactively notifying customers. If there are preventative or recovery steps, include those as well as the timeline for any permanent resolution. While the customer might not be pleased by a potential issue, the early notification with a plan of action will help offset that frustration.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Your Service Philosophy</span></h1><p>Do you agree with the "Three A's?" Why or why not? If you have an approach to service similar to the idea of the "Three A's," what is it?</p>