---
title: "Monday Musings on Customer Service December  "
date: 2016-12-20T00:45:25.000Z
authors: ["paulselby"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=861e226ddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619dc"
---
<p><em>Please note: starting later this week, I will be on vacation until Tuesday, </em><em>January 3, 2017. As such, the "Monday Musings on Customer Service" will be on a break, returning Monday, January 9, 2017.</em></p><p></p><p>Welcome to my last blog post for 2016! As another year comes to a close, and in the spirit of a fresh start for 2017, let's talk about resolutions - not the personal kind, the kind you're making for your customer service business. (Go ahead and call them goals, if you would like.) What do you resolve to do better, change, or start anew in 2017 in your customer service business? Allow me to offer some suggestions.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Reduce Customer Effort</span></h1><p>Now more than ever, customers are starting online - with your service website - when they need help. They are motivated by always-available solutions and the confidence to self-serve. Are you meeting their needs here?</p><p></p><p>A knowledgebase is a very flexible means of providing solutions to customers. Frequently asked questions will see recurring access. Solutions requiring a series of steps to be followed allow the customer to solve their issue any time at their own pace. Commonly requested documentation (such as manuals) can be attached to articles. Bear in mind two potential issues that might limit your success with your knowledgebase: a narrow search function and lack of periodic curation of your knowledgebase articles. If customers can't readily find what they are looking for, or what they find is out-of-date, they will turn to your other, more expensive one-to-one channels for assistance.</p><p></p><p>In addition to your knowledgebase, what common action-oriented responses can you automate? Some examples of common actions customers might be needing are to change an address, update their billing information, or check an order status. These and other typical requests can be automated through self-service actions, tying your online customer service portal directly into your backend systems and processes, saving the time of your customer and agents alike, as well as reducing the chance of error.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Make Connections</span></h1><p>Your customer service team is the face of your company to your customers. The inquiries they receive on a daily basis range from common to unique, and they work diligently to solve them. The reality is many of the issues they encounter are as a result of a failure born elsewhere in the company - perhaps an incorrect statement in a product manual, a fault in a manufacturing run, or an incorrect billing statement sent out. The origin of these problems - and their ultimate solution - lies outside of customer service. How well is customer service connecting to other parts of your organization to solve the problems at their source? Renew your efforts to share these issues with the rest of your organization. When these problems can be quantified by real volume data as well as the corresponding costs, these other departments will sit up and take notice to address their issues, not only driving down the volume, but also increasing the product or service quality for your customers.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Go From Reactive To Proactive</span></h1><p>The act of customer service is commonly in response to customers having a question or issue. Service centers are staffed with agents standing by to assist, waiting for the phone to ring or the chat queue to fill. This will always be the case, but one way to serve customers better is to address their issue <em>before they even realize it exists</em>. How? As you notice trends in requests developing and it becomes clear that all or a growing subset of your customers will be impacted, imagine their reaction if you were to email or call to notify those customers not yet affected with a solution before they experienced it? This is possible through maintaining good customer contact information, what products/services they own (and any corresponding use information, if relevant), and monitoring the trends in your service requests. Of these resolutions, this one requires the most effort, but also provides one of the greatest returns on investment in time saved by customer service as well as higher perception by customers of your company and brand.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Make Your Resolutions</span></h1><p>Where does your customer service team stand currently in these areas? Could you be doing better? What do you resolve to start, change, or improve in 2017? Have a Happy New Year!</p>