---
title: "Results of my master thesis about research report Business Service Management and Service Automation in the Swiss Market"
date: 2015-02-03T19:16:21.000Z
authors: ["markus_montilla@swissre"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=e7dd6ae9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619e3"
---
<p>Management Summary</p><p></p><p>It is not only the latest Gartner report and their magic quadrant that shows ServiceNow on top of its competitor. ServiceNow is winning more and more market share of the highly segmented IT Service Management tools market. The main competitors BMC, HP and IBM continue to lose market share. The market for ITSM solutions is mature, however on average you can expect a decision to replace a tool once every five years1. Additionally, ServiceNow was the first successful IPO after Facebook. Their market share price started at 24.60 US dollars (July 2012) and climbed up to 69.28 US dollars (February 2014). The following paper is taking a closer look at Servicenow's potential and verifies a demand and market for automation of business services.</p><p></p><p>The results of this study confirm a strong demand in automation of business services. ServiceNow has positioned themselves in this area. There are pros and cons for Swiss companies to continue to invest in their ServiceNow platform. Within this paper we analyzed and summarized the feedback and results of a survey sent to 48 participants and more detailed interviews with representatives of the supplier and demand side.</p><p></p><p>This report investigates market potential using market research material found on the internet and conducted surveys with customers and suppliers of ServiceNow. The final chapter consists of the analysis of the results and a conclusion whether there is a potential market demand or not. It focuses on the Swiss market and larger Swiss companies.</p><p></p><p>If you are interested to know more about my study, please connect and follow me, as well on twitter: mmonty01</p>