---
title: " Indicators You ARE Innovative"
date: 2015-02-03T18:09:36.000Z
authors: ["angelaburk"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=f78caae1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96195b"
---
<p class="p1">As the lead for our Voice of Customer Program, nothing humbles and gratifies me more than hearing about how ServiceNow is being used within IT and across the enterprise to truly change the way work is getting done and the way people are doing their work.</p><p class="p2"></p><p class="p1">Often, the story telling goes something like this:</p><p class="p2"></p><p class="p1" style="padding-left: 30px;"><em>Me: "So, tell me about the ways you having automated processes or tasks by leveraging ServiceNow or through a custom app you've built."</em></p><p class="p2" style="padding-left: 30px;"></p><p class="p1" style="padding-left: 30px;"><em>Customer: "Oh, we haven't done anything too transformative — but there is this little project for [HR, Finance, Facilities - fill in the blank] where we took a process that was done over email and automated it."</em></p><p class="p2" style="padding-left: 30px;"></p><p class="p1" style="padding-left: 30px;"><em>Me: "Wait a minute. You did what now? Tell me more."</em></p><p class="p2" style="padding-left: 30px;"></p><p class="p1" style="padding-left: 30px;"><em>Customer: "Well, it's really nothing big and it was such a quick win…[details about the workflow and process] that used to take the team weeks or days now takes hours or minutes to complete. It was so easy to get done - nothing I'd say is too innovative."</em></p><p class="p2"></p><p class="p1">And that's when I literally can not contain my excitement.</p><p class="p2"></p><p class="p1">The point is that every day YOU, our customers, are making incredible contributions toward encouraging your organizations to think differently about the way services are being managed and delivered and about improving the way work is getting done — and guess what? That's called INNOVATING.</p><p class="p2"></p><p class="p1">And now is the time to share those innovations with us and your peers through our annual <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/community/knowledge-user-conference/knowledge15/content-programs/innovation">Innovation of the Year Program</a>.</p><p class="p2"></p><p class="p3"><strong>My top 3 indicators to signal that you in fact DO have an Innovation that needs to be shared:</strong></p><p class="p2"></p><p class="p1">1) Have you taken a process or work task that was bogged down in emails, legacy applications and/or manual processes and automated it using ServiceNow?</p><p class="p2"></p><p class="p1">2) Have you built or deployed a ServiceNow app or configured ServiceNow in some way to change the way work is getting done for a line of business such as HR or Facilities?</p><p class="p2"></p><p class="p1">3) Is your use of ServiceNow driving a quantifiable improvement in the way work is getting done, services are being delivered or in customer satisfaction?</p><p class="p2"></p><p class="p1">If the answer to any 3 of these questions is YES or even something close to yes such as "<em>you know I hadn't thought of it like that before but I think so</em>", then...<span class="s2"><strong>Tell. More. People. </strong></span></p><p class="p2"></p><p class="p1">Share your innovation <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/community/knowledge-user-conference/knowledge15/content-programs/innovation">here</a>. Submission closes on March 31, 2015.</p><p class="p2"></p><p class="p1">Need or want additional inspiration? Check out our <a title="w.servicenow.com/innovation.html" href="http://www.servicenow.com/innovation.html">Innovation Hall of Fame</a> here and don't forget about <a title="hare.servicenow.com/app.do#/category/all?startRow=0&sort_parameter=title&filter=" href="https://share.servicenow.com/app.do#/category/all?startRow=0&amp;sort_parameter=title&amp;filter=">ServiceNow Share</a>.</p>