---
title: "New system properties in Fuji"
date: 2015-02-05T04:21:29.000Z
authors: ["suzanne.smith"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=bb2de6e5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619c4"
---
<p style="text-align: center;"><em>"Everyone has a "risk muscle." You keep it in shape by trying new things. If you don't, it atrophies. Make a point of using it at least once a day."</em></p><p style="text-align: center;">-Roger von Oech</p><p style="text-align: center;"></p><p>In a blog post a couple of months ago, I talked about ServiceNow <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=daad26a9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961949">system properties</a>, specifically how to use them and how to create them. Our new <a title="ki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Fuji_Release_Notes" href="http://wiki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Fuji_Release_Notes">Fuji product release</a> contains 17 new and useful system properties that you should know about. Here's a bit about each.</p><p></p><table border="1" class="jiveBorder" jive-data-cell="{&quot;color&quot;:&quot;#575757&quot;,&quot;textAlign&quot;:&quot;left&quot;,&quot;padding&quot;:&quot;2&quot;,&quot;backgroundColor&quot;:&quot;transparent&quot;,&quot;fontFamily&quot;:&quot;arial,helvetica,sans-serif&quot;,&quot;verticalAlign&quot;:&quot;baseline&quot;}" jive-data-header="{&quot;color&quot;:&quot;#FFFFFF&quot;,&quot;backgroundColor&quot;:&quot;#6690BC&quot;,&quot;textAlign&quot;:&quot;center&quot;,&quot;padding&quot;:&quot;2&quot;}" style="border: 1px solid #000000; width: 100%;"><tbody><tr><th style="text-align: center; background-color: #6690bc; color: #ffffff; padding: 2px;" valign="middle">System Property</th><th style="text-align: center; background-color: #6690bc; color: #ffffff; padding: 2px;" valign="middle">Description</th></tr><tr><td colspan="1"><p>com.glide.loader.allow_along_column_names</p></td><td colspan="1"><p>Controls if header names in imported files can exceed 30 characters.</p></td></tr><tr><td>glide.discovery.software_sccm_managed</td><td>Designates if Discovery populates the CMDB with Windows software for computer CIs that are already managed by SCCM.</td></tr><tr><td>glide.email.inbound.calendar_behavior</td><td>Specifies how the system stores calendar data.</td></tr><tr><td>glide.email.inbound.conver_html_line_attachment_references</td><td>Specifies whether to convert inbound email HTML so email images appear in the activity formater and email HTML body preview.</td></tr><tr><td>glide.email.outbound.max_body_bytes</td><td>Sets the maximum body size in bytes allowed per outbound email.</td></tr><tr><td>glide.import_set_insert_serialized_when_no_coalesce</td><td>Controls the processing of web service import sets that have no coalesce fields defined.</td></tr><tr><td>glide.knowman.search.articles_per_page</td><td>Controls the maximum number of results that can appear on a single page when searching a knowledge base.</td></tr><tr><td>glide.knowman.search.pinned_articles_max_number</td><td>Controls the maximum number of pinned articles that can appear on a single page when searching a knowledge base.</td></tr><tr><td>glide.rest.apis.disabled</td><td>Controls which REST APIs are available on the instance, along with <span style="font-family: 'courier new', courier;">glide.rest.apis.enabled</span>.</td></tr><tr><td>glide.rest.apis.enabled</td><td>Controls which REST APIs are available on the instance, along with <span style="font-family: 'courier new', courier;">glide.rest.apis.disabled</span>.</td></tr><tr><td>glide.rest.outbound.debug</td><td>Logs all stages of outbound REST processing, including processing times.</td></tr><tr><td>glide.rest.outbound.ecc_response.timeout</td><td>The maximum amount of time to wait for a response when sending an outbound REST message.</td></tr><tr><td style="padding: 2px;">glide.rest.outbound.ecc_response.timeout</td><td style="padding: 2px;">Truncates legend labels for left or right legend alignment for all chart sizes except large charts. Prevents shrinking of charts in case of long labels.</td></tr><tr><td>glide.chart.label.legend.truncate_to.large</td><td>Truncates legend labels for left or right legend alignment for all chart sizes except large charts. Prevents shrinking of charts in case of long labels.</td></tr><tr><td>glide.ui.list.detail_row</td><td>Enables or disables detail rows in lists.</td></tr><tr><td>glide.ui.personalize_form &lt;--</td><td>Enables or disables the form personalization feature.</td></tr><tr><td>glide.ui.personalize_form.role &lt;--</td><td>Determines which roles users must have to personalize forms.</td></tr></tbody></table><p></p><p>In addition to new properties, 12 existing properties have been modified in the Fuji release:</p><p></p><table border="1" class="jiveBorder" style="border: 1px solid #000000; width: 100%;"><tbody><tr><th style="text-align: center; background-color: #6690bc; color: #ffffff; padding: 2px;" valign="middle">System Property</th><th style="text-align: center; background-color: #6690bc; color: #ffffff; padding: 2px;" valign="middle">Description and Fuji Changes</th></tr><tr><td>com.glide.email.max_body_bytes</td><td>Sets the maximum body size in bytes allowed per inbound email. Starting with the Fuji release, the new default value is 1048576.</td></tr><tr><td>com.snc.pa.chart_default_color_schema</td><td>Default chart color scheme. For new ServiceNow instances starting with the Fuji release, the default value is Default UI14.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="1">glide.email.reply_subject_prefix</td><td colspan="1">Specifies the list of prefixed in the subject line that identify an email reply. Starting with the Fuji release, the new default value is: re:,aw:,r:,Accepted:,Tentative:,Declined:</td></tr><tr><td>glide.imprt_set_insert_serialized. &lt;table name&gt;</td><td>Controls the processing of web service import sets. Starting with the Fuji release, this property replaces the <span style="font-family: 'courier new', courier;">glide.soap.import_set_insert_serialized. &lt;table name&gt;</span> property.</td></tr><tr><td>glide.ldap.binary_attributes</td><td>List of LDAP attributes that should be converted from binary format to encoded64 strings. Starting with the Fuji release, you can set this property for a MID Server to import BLOB data through a MID Server.</td></tr><tr><td>glide.pop3.reply_separators</td><td>Specifies the comma-separated list of separators that cause the instance to disregard everything below the text string in the message body. Starting with the Fuji release, unicode encoding is supported.</td></tr><tr><td>glide.report.use_charting_v2</td><td>Enables or disables the new charting engine when the plugin is activated. Starting with the Fuji release, Report Charting v2 is automatically used on upgrading your ServiceNow instance. Therefore, the system property <span style="font-family: 'courier new', courier;">glide.report.use_charting_v2</span> is deprecated.</td></tr><tr><td>glide.report.new_home.heavy</td><td>Sets the number for the top <span __jive_emoticon_name="x" __jive_macro_name="emoticon" class="jive_macro jive_emote" src="/6.0.3.0/images/emoticons/x.png"></span> reports that take the most time to be generated. Starting with the Fuji release, these are displayed on Heavy tab of the report_admin's homepage.</td></tr><tr><td>glide.report.new_home.most_used</td><td>Sets the number for the top <span __jive_emoticon_name="x" __jive_macro_name="emoticon" class="jive_macro jive_emote" src="/6.0.3.0/images/emoticons/x.png"></span><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5em;"> most used reports. Starting with the Fuji release, these are displayed on Most used tab of the report_admin's homepage.</span></td></tr><tr><td>glide.report.new_home.unused</td><td>Sets the number for unused reports. Starting with the Fuji release, these are displayed on the Unused tab of the report_admin's homepage.</td></tr><tr><td>glide.soap.import_set_insert_serialized. &lt;table name&gt;</td><td>Controls the processing of web service inserts, including REST imports. Starting with the Fuji release, this property was replaced with <span style="font-family: 'courier new', courier;">import_set_insert_serialized.&lt;table name&gt;</span>.</td></tr><tr><td>glide.soap.request_processing_timeout</td><td>Specify the maximum number of seconds an inbound SOAP request has to finish processing before the connection times out. Starting with the Fuji release, the default is 60.</td></tr></tbody></table><p></p><p>For more details about these new and changed system properties, see <a href="http://wiki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Available_System_Properties" title="http://wiki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Available_System_Properties">Available System Properties</a><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5em;"> in the product documentation.</span></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5em;"><br/></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5em;">There are also some new and changed service catalog properties in the Fuji release. If you are interested in learning more about them, see </span><a href="http://wiki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Service_Catalog_Properties" title="http://wiki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Service_Catalog_Properties">Service Catalog Properties</a><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5em;"> in the product documentation.</span></p><div><span style="color: #333333; font-family: Omnes-pro, Arial, Verdana, sans-serif; font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px; background-color: #eeeeee;"><br/></span></div><noscript>&lt;img height="1" width="1" style="display:none;" alt="" src="https://analytics.twitter.com/i/adsct?txn_id=l5hmf&amp;p_id=Twitter" /&gt;&lt;img height="1" width="1" style="display:none;" alt="" src="//t.co/i/adsct?txn_id=l5hmf&amp;p_id=Twitter" /&gt;</noscript>