---
title: "CreatathonHackNow  Its On"
date: 2015-02-19T04:01:29.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=d1dda6e9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961917"
---
<p class="p1"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Customers are continually driving the ServiceNow platform into new areas of the business, modernizing and transforming the way in which work is being requested, fulfilled and measured. I have seen first hand many of the innovative ways in which problems are being solved, through a common platform and series of solutions and/or functionality. Boiling down the problem and re-constructing it as a modern rich and intuitive experience is allowing organizations to move quicker, scale faster and deliver services like never before.</span></p><p class="p2"></p><p class="p1"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">I am incredibly proud to be part of an upcoming event with our partner and customer, Cognizant. On February 28<span class="s1"><sup>th</sup></span> we are unleashing up to 2,000 of their brightest and best in an all day Hackathon. The goal is to build meaningful, innovative applications/solutions that solve problems that customers have today and are difficult using existing solutions and platforms.   The team at Cognizant are all in, we have 5 locations in India participating. There will be live blogging, tweeting and video interviews throughout the day, so watch for updates, we will be on Twitter using #HackNow.</span></p><p class="p2"></p><p class="p1"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">If you want to hold similar events to drive innovation and create a step change in your organization to think about solving problems in a different but simple way, then let us know.</span></p><p class="p2"></p><p class="p1"><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10pt;">The days of using legacy client/server and soviet era software are gone…<span style="color: #ff0000;"><strong>What are you doing to drive transformation?</strong></span></span></p><p class="p2"></p><p class="p1"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Next update from India, it's going to be a blast.</span></p><p class="p2"></p><p class="p1"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Chris</span></p>