---
title: "Your Enterprise as a Work of ART"
date: 2015-02-19T00:33:02.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=047dae29dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96191a"
---
<p><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-family: calibri, verdana, arial, sans-serif;">While every enterprise is different, there are three fundamental characteristics that appear common to every successful modern enterprise — things that make that enterprise a work of "ART."</span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 1.5em; font-family: calibri, verdana, arial, sans-serif;"><br/></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 1.5em; font-family: calibri, verdana, arial, sans-serif;">The successful modern enterprise is:</span></p><ul><li><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 1.5em; font-family: calibri, verdana, arial, sans-serif;"><em><strong>A</strong>gile</em> — able to navigate nimbly all types of internal and external change, expected and unexpected.</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 1.5em; font-family: calibri, verdana, arial, sans-serif;"><em><strong>R</strong>esilient</em> — able to avoid threats, disasters, and disruptions, and to recover rapidly and seamlessly from those that cannot be avoided.</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 1.5em; font-family: calibri, verdana, arial, sans-serif;"><em><strong>T</strong>rustworthy</em> — able to credibly demonstrate and document operational transparency, in ways that both create and justify high levels of trust among all stakeholders.</span></li></ul><p></p><h1><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 1.5em; font-family: calibri, verdana, arial, sans-serif;">How to Achieve a State of ART</span></h1><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><span style="line-height: 1.5em;">So how best to achieve and sustain a state of "ART?" By attaining another characteristic common to successful enterprises: </span><span style="line-height: 1.5em;"><em>enterprise service and process excellence</em>. Which stands to reason, since consistent, enterprise-wide agility, resilience, and trustworthiness require consistently excellent services and processes. Agility, resilience, and trustworthiness are the pillars supporting the successful modern enterprise, Enterprise service and process excellence is the foundation that supports those pillars. (For more on this closely related subject, check out "<a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=6a9d6e69dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96194f">Enterprise Service and Process Excellence: What It Is and How to Get It</a>."</span></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 1.5em;"><br/></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 1.5em;">To get to enterprise service and process excellence, your enterprise must automate, integrate, and optimize management of its services, as well as governance, risk, and compliance. In many cases, this begins within IT, since IT has deep experience in delivering and managing services. Once proven within IT, that management can be extended across the enterprise. Such management is the bedrock that complements the foundation that supports the pillars of agility, resilience, and trustworthiness.</span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 1.5em;"><br/></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 1.5em;">Of course, none of these strengths can be achieved or sustained by any processes or technologies alone. As with almost everything else a successful enterprise does, ART is achieved and sustained by people. Specifically, you and your people. In concert with colleagues from across your enterprise. Evolution into an ARTful enterprise requires leaders, evangelists, champions, and supporters to implement and manage the policies, processes, technologies, and services that make ART possible.</span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 1.5em;"><br/></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 1.5em;">During the next few weeks, additional posts will dig a bit more deeply into the market forces driving the rise of the ARTful enterprise, and how your enterprise can achieve and sustain agility, resilience, and trustworthiness. As always, your comments, questions, and stories are welcome.</span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 1.5em;"><br/></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 1.5em;">Next: read "<a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=a71da2e5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961960">Your 'ART-ful' Enterprise: Agility</a>," post two in the series. More to come...</span></p>