---
title: "ServiceNow Sr Application Architect Position Available Dallas"
date: 2015-02-27T22:03:07.000Z
authors: ["maureenbenjamin"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=5afc26a5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96191e"
---
<p><span>Hi, I wanted to share a great opportunity for a direct hire, permanent position with a dynamic and growing company in Dallas/Ft. Worth.   Please review the job description below and email me with your resume at </span><a title="k-email-small" class="jive-link-email-small" href="mailto:magorman@att.net">magorman@att.net</a><span>.</span></p><p></p><table border="0" cellpadding="2" cellspacing="0" style="width: 100%;"><tbody><tr><td colspan="2"><h1>Description</h1></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"><table border="0" cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0" height="1058" jive-data-cell="{&quot;color&quot;:&quot;#575757&quot;,&quot;textAlign&quot;:&quot;left&quot;,&quot;padding&quot;:&quot;NaN&quot;,&quot;backgroundColor&quot;:&quot;#EFEFEF&quot;,&quot;fontFamily&quot;:&quot;arial,helvetica,sans-serif&quot;,&quot;verticalAlign&quot;:&quot;baseline&quot;}" jive-data-header="{&quot;color&quot;:&quot;#FFFFFF&quot;,&quot;backgroundColor&quot;:&quot;#6690BC&quot;,&quot;textAlign&quot;:&quot;center&quot;,&quot;padding&quot;:&quot;2&quot;}" style="margin: auto auto auto 0.75pt; width: 973px; height: 1058px;"><tbody><tr><td style="background: #efefef; border: #d4d0c8; border-image: none;"><p style="margin: 0px 0px 0px 4.5pt;"><strong style="font-family: calibri;">ServiceNow Sr Application Architect (Dallas)</strong></p><p></p><p style="margin: 0px 0px 0px 4.5pt;"><span style="font-family: calibri;">The </span><strong style=": ; font-family: calibri, sans-serif; font-weight: normal;">ADM Senior Application Architect will be responsible for implementation of ServiceNow capabilities including but not limited to </strong>ITIL processes, service management, asset and configuration management, software asset and contract management.     Responsible for implementation of large and small initiatives and projects from initiation through completion.</p></td></tr><tr><td style="background: #f7f7f7; border: #d4d0c8; border-image: none;"><p><strong style="font-family: calibri;">ServiceNow Technology and Architecture</strong></p><ul><li><span style="font-family: calibri;">Provide subject matter expertise, act as technical product advocate, design, develop and implement ITIL processes, ITSM, ITAM, SACM, Knowledge, Demand and Release Management modules within ServiceNow platform.</span></li><li><span style="font-family: calibri;">Implement technology specific best practices and standards.</span></li><li><span style="font-family: calibri;">Researches and evaluates alternative solutions and recommends the most efficient and cost effective solutions</span></li><li><span style="font-family: calibri;">Proposes data model, design changes to processes and products, exerts significant latitude in determining objectives of an assignment.</span></li><li><span style="font-family: calibri;">Translates requirements into functional   and technical requirements</span></li><li><span style="font-family: calibri;">Designs and develops extensions to Service Now data model in support of requirements towards AMDB and CMDB, SACM and other modules.</span></li><li><span style="font-family: calibri;">Reviews and refines designs for usability, reviews testing scenarios and refines test cases, to ensure applications quality and works with users to review test results to ensure they meet expected results</span></li><li><span style="font-family: calibri;">Support and coordinate scheduling and execution of releases, product upgrades, new technology deployments.</span></li><li><span style="font-family: calibri;">Evaluation new features and produce comprehensive analysis and recommendations.</span></li><li><span style="font-family: calibri;">Perform and participate in product roadmap planning, participate in disaster recovery planning and testing, etc.</span></li><li><span style="font-family: calibri;">Provide 2<sup style="font-size: 10pt;">nd</sup>/3<sup style="font-size: 10pt;">rd</sup> level ServiceNow support, resolve incidents.   </span></li></ul> <strong style="font-family: calibri;">Process Management and Project Coordination</strong><ul><li><span style="font-family: calibri;">Assists in development of project estimates, contributes to defining project timelines, project plans and milestones</span></li><li><span style="font-family: calibri;">Instructs, assigns, reviews the work of other team members, including the review of high-level designs, detail designs, code, and test plans and results</span></li><li><span style="font-family: calibri;">Performs all development lifecycle activities and provides quality assurance for the work of other team members</span></li><li><span style="font-family: calibri;">Reports status to management as necessary</span></li><li><span style="font-family: calibri;">Mentors and coaches other team members, facilitates individual team member development of technical, functional, and industry skills</span></li></ul> <strong style="font-family: calibri;">Documentation</strong><ul><li><span style="font-family: calibri;">Produces and maintains detailed system documentation</span> including design specs, maintenance, troubleshooting, deployment, disaster recovery, technotes, and testing, etc.</li></ul><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-family: calibri, sans-serif;"><strong>Experience</strong></span><span style="margin: 0px 0px 0px 4.5pt; font-family: calibri;">Minimum of 10 years overall experience in implementing ITIL, Enterprise Service Management, Asset and Configuration Management; At least 2 years of experience with ServiceNow.</span><ul><li><span style="font-family: calibri;">Strong working knowledge in all aspects of Service Management, Asset and Configuration Management and ITIL practices</span></li><li><span style="font-family: calibri;">Strong working knowledge in each of the following: ServiceNow, JavaScript, web services, JDBC and distributed computing</span></li><li><span style="font-family: calibri;">Design and development of RDBMS systems specifically with Oracle SQL</span></li><li><span style="font-family: calibri;">Familiarity with Unix, Linux, Shell Scripting</span></li><li><span style="font-family: calibri;">Practical experience with agile methodologies/tools</span></li><li><span style="font-family: calibri;">Strong communication skills, both written and verbal, with the ability to describe technical solutions in the terms of the business</span></li><li><span style="font-family: calibri;">Experience with leading a geographically separated customers and onshore/offshore teams</span></li><li><span style="font-family: calibri;">Interacts cross functionally on matters that require coordination across organization and collaborates well with other groups, voluntarily shares information.</span></li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table></td></tr></tbody></table>