---
title: "My Unofficial GRC Track at Knowledge "
date: 2015-03-25T18:39:07.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=091eae2ddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619e4"
---
<p>In chronological order...</p><p><strong><br/></strong></p><p><strong>21LA08 - Governance, Risk, and Compliance using UCF Authority Documents</strong></p><p><strong>Tuesday, Apr 21, 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM</strong></p><p><em>Michael Reade - Manager, Application Development, ServiceNow</em></p><p><em><a __default_attr="4072" __jive_macro_name="user" class="jive_macro_user jive_macro" data-orig-content="Scott Ferguson" href="/community?id=community_user_profile&user=b92352a5db1c1fc09c9ffb651f961945" modifiedtitle="true" title="Scott Ferguson">Scott Ferguson</a> - Sr. Solution Consultant - GRC Specialist, ServiceNow</em></p><p><em><br/></em></p><p style="padding-left: 30px;">Automated Governance, Risk, and Compliance (GRC) helps bring order to an enterprise's crazy quilt of overlapping regulations, redundant audit efforts, manual compliance processes, lost email attestations, and file shares for testing evidence. In this lab, you will learn how to automate this work by documenting policies and procedures, defining controls, automating control testing, and tracking remediation efforts. You will also learn how the new Unified Compliance Framework (UCF) integration automatically provides up-to-date authority documents, citations, and guidance. Prerequisite: ServiceNow administration is helpful, but not required.</p><p><strong><br/></strong></p><p><strong>21BD09 - Centralizing Procurement &amp; Standardizing Solutions</strong></p><p><strong>Tuesday, Apr 21, 2:40 PM - 3:30 PM</strong></p><p><em>Herman Brown - Director of Business Engagement, San Francisco Department of Technology</em></p><p><em><br/></em></p><p style="padding-left: 30px;">How do complex organizations ensure that purchases are consistent and savings are maximized across departmental silos? The San Francisco Department of Technology is chartered with achieving savings through innovation and efficiencies for all City and County agencies. ServiceNow plays an important role in fulfilling this mission. A CIO Review process leverages the power of ServiceNow to check procurement requests from across the City and County against an Approved Solutions list and efficiently route approvals through multiple workflows. This controlled governance model has streamlined procurement decisions and provided end users with real-time visibility. This session will show you how to design and institute a governance model that saves money and increases efficiency.</p><p><strong><br/></strong></p><p><strong>22BA02 - Automating Vulnerability Management for Continuous Monitoring</strong></p><p><strong>Wednesday, Apr 22, 10:00 AM - 10:50 AM</strong></p><p><em>Carlene Logan - Cyber Security / Risk Management Analyst, Oak Ridge National Laboratory</em></p><p><em><br/></em></p><p style="padding-left: 30px;">Oak Ridge National Laboratory developed a risk-based Vulnerability Management module in ServiceNow for vulnerability ticketing, notification, tracking, escalation and reporting. Attendees will learn how this application ties Tenable Nessus scan results to the CMDB and then applies risk conditions to prioritize remediation efforts. The app automatically creates, assigns, and closes tickets daily, and reopens tickets when the devices exceed established risk thresholds. This practical application leverages the automated ServiceNow CMDB discovery functions and its flexible development environment to provide visibility in a way not previously available. In addition, this vulnerability management process is integrated into ORNL's IT GRC policies, security controls and its risk-based approach to federal authorization and accreditation is used for continuous monitoring of vulnerability-related controls.</p><p><strong><br/></strong></p><p><strong>22SG04 - Life Sciences SIG (lunch included)</strong></p><p><strong>Wednesday, Apr 22, 11:10 AM - 1:10 PM</strong></p><p><em><a __default_attr="12677" __jive_macro_name="user" class="jive_macro_user jive_macro" data-orig-content="Carri Thompson" href="/community?id=community_user_profile&user=ce1f4ee1db181fc09c9ffb651f9619bc" modifiedtitle="true" title="Carri Thompson">Carri Thompson</a> - Sr. Mgr, Compliance, ServiceNow</em></p><p><em><br/></em></p><p style="padding-left: 30px;">Hear how leading companies in the life sciences are leveraging ServiceNow to streamline their auditing and compliance efforts in addition to improving service management across the Enterprise. Participate in this interactive discussion and then enjoy your lunch while networking with other attendees from life sciences companies.</p><p><strong><br/></strong></p><p><strong>22BC03 - Enabling Large-Scale Security Patch Compliance</strong></p><p><strong>Wednesday, Apr 22, 1:30 PM - 2:20 PM</strong></p><p><em>Dan Sumner - Principal, Sabre</em></p><p><em><br/></em></p><p style="padding-left: 30px;">Today's enterprise standards in regards to PCI/PII and security compliance demand a hyper-aggressive patch schedule given a wide footprint of technology assets. For global companies that operate around the clock, patch management is a highly complex endeavor requiring seamless orchestration of end-to-end patch management to ensure no interruption in customer traffic. In addition, enterprises that have a diverse application portfolio in architecture and functionality elevates this complexity even higher.   In this session, Sabre will share an approach for automating patch management leveraging CMDB, change management and orchestration. They will elaborate their approach, benefits, accomplishments and enterprise-wide rollout plan.</p><p></p><div><strong>22BD12 - Using the COBIT 5 Business Process Reference Model with ServiceNow</strong><p><strong>Wednesday, Apr 22, 2:40 PM - 3:30 PM</strong></p><p><em><a __default_attr="7427" __jive_macro_name="user" class="jive_macro_user jive_macro" data-orig-content="John Jasinski" href="/community?id=community_user_profile&user=0d92962ddbd81fc09c9ffb651f9619f5" modifiedtitle="true" title="John Jasinski">John Jasinski</a> - Process Leader, C5Now</em></p><p><em><br/></em></p></div><p style="padding-left: 30px;">COBIT 5 is a business process reference model covering all ITIL / ITSM processes which exist in ServiceNow. It provides an umbrella framework — an end-to-end business view of the management and governance of enterprise IT that reflects the central role of information and technology in creating value for enterprises. The principles, practices, analytical tools and models found in COBIT 5 embody thought leadership and guidance from business, IT and governance experts around the world. Learn how you can leverage this process reference model in your own organization to inspire innovation and fuel business success.</p><p><strong><br/></strong></p><p><strong>22BF02 - Accelerate Employee Onboarding &amp; Service Center Operations — M&amp;A Style</strong></p><p><strong>Wednesday, Apr 22, 5:00 PM - 5:50 PM</strong></p><p><em><a __default_attr="20464" __jive_macro_name="user" class="jive_macro_user jive_macro" data-orig-content="Bart Murphy" href="/community?id=community_user_profile&user=c7f05aa1db981fc09c9ffb651f9619d4" modifiedtitle="true" title="Bart Murphy">Bart Murphy</a> - CIO &amp; CTO, York Risk Services, Careworks</em></p><p><em>Pete Bellisano - Chief Process Officer, York Risk Services Group</em></p><p><em><br/></em></p><p style="padding-left: 30px;">Any organization that has gone through mergers and acquisitions or significant business growth over a short period of time knows that employee onboarding can be challenging. How do you assimilate large groups of new employees so they quickly become productive, contributing members of your organization — and how do IT organizations and other functional service areas across an enterprise quickly scale to accelerate the work required when dealing with large influxes of new employees?   The IT team at CareWorks was already using ServiceNow to consolidate and standardize multiple businesses with great success and it became obvious that the ServiceNow platform could manage and automate the way work gets done beyond IT. When CareWorks was acquired by York Risk Services Group in early 2014, the decision was made to scale ServiceNow to support all service center operations for York RSG, including all current acquisitions (6 in 2014 alone) and future acquisitions. Join Chief Process Officer, Pete Bellisano and Chief Technology Officer, Bart Murphy, to get an executive perspective on how CareWorks and York Risk Services created a more efficient onboarding and service management model. They'll share best practices and discuss the importance of having a single platform that can automate onboarding for large groups of new employees and support a significant number of business support functions managed by their regional service centers. You'll get insight into how service management best practices can be applied to streamline M&amp;A activity and lessons learned along the way.</p><p><strong><br/></strong></p><p><strong>22BF11 - Transform Governance, Risk, and Compliance with Automation</strong></p><p><strong>Wednesday, Apr 22, 5:00 PM - 5:50 PM</strong></p><p><em><a __default_attr="2178" __jive_macro_name="user" class="jive_macro_user jive_macro" data-orig-content="Garrick Vance" href="/community?id=community_user_profile&user=197e0a69dbd41fc09c9ffb651f961967" modifiedtitle="true" title="Garrick Vance">Garrick Vance</a> - Product Management, ServiceNow</em></p><p><em><br/></em></p><p style="padding-left: 30px;">Learn how GRC powerfully automates your compliance initiatives by leveraging the UCF to make establish a control framework easier. See new survey-based assessment capabilities that can automate manual attestation process. See more powerful reporting tools that give greater visibility to compliance activities and status.</p><p><strong><br/></strong></p><p><strong>23BA01 - Automation Everywhere Can be A Reality</strong></p><p><strong>Thursday, Apr 23, 11:00 AM - 11:50 AM</strong></p><p><em>Steve Sikora - Project Manager, AEGIS insurance Services, Inc.</em></p><p><em>Himanshu Pandya - Sr. Manager, Office of the CIO, AEGIS Insurance Services</em></p><p><em>Paul Hartmann - IT Compliance &amp; Security, AEGIS Insurance Service, Inc.</em></p><p><em><br/></em></p><p style="padding-left: 30px;">You'd think it would take a big team to transform the Office of the CIO by automating many of the processes that are required to successfully run IT. Not for AEGIS, a leading mutual insurance company that provides liability and property coverage and related risk management services to the utility and energy industries. In this session AEGIS will guide you through the steps IT took to successfully deploy ServiceNow into core areas including Finance, Project Portfolio Management, Workforce and Demand Management, Self-Service and IT GRC - and the team has done all this within just a few short months. You'll learn where the team started and successful strategies for extending the value of ServiceNow into other business areas.</p><p></p><div><strong>23BB08 - A Business View of Integrating GRC and Service Management</strong><p><strong>Thursday, Apr 23, 12:10 PM - 1:00 PM</strong></p><p><em><a __default_attr="38121" __jive_macro_name="user" class="jive_macro_user jive_macro" data-objecttype="3" data-orig-content="Morgan Hunter" href="/community?id=community_user_profile&user=2b1e8ee1dbd41fc09c9ffb651f9619b1" modifiedtitle="true" title="Morgan Hunter">Morgan Hunter</a> - Sr. Manager, Product Management, ServiceNow</em></p><p><em><a __default_attr="14265" __jive_macro_name="user" class="jive_macro_user jive_macro" data-orig-content="Kris Markham" href="/community?id=community_user_profile&user=b1eeca21db181fc09c9ffb651f9619fa" modifiedtitle="true" title="Kris Markham">Kris Markham</a> - Sr. Manager, Product Management, ServiceNow</em></p><p><em><br/></em></p></div><p style="padding-left: 30px;">Running service management and risk &amp; compliance in functional silos is outdated. With new regulatory demands emerging daily, and increasing public demand for effective risk management, the only logical answer is to integrate GRC directly into your business processes. In this session, you will learn best practices to avoid unnecessary competition for resources, redundant processes, and gaps in visibility.   You will hear how GRC and service management are integrated on the ServiceNow platform, along with case studies and tips and tricks on how to get started in your organization.</p><p></p><p>Hope to see you in all these sessions.</p>