---
title: "The one developer conference you absolutely cant miss this year"
date: 2015-03-22T04:14:11.000Z
authors: ["nsimha"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=a1ed2ee9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619d3"
---
<p>This year there is one more reason to attend Knowledge and that is to attend   <a title="CreatorCon" __default_attr="2074" __jive_macro_name="community" class="jive_macro_community jive_macro" data-orig-content="CreatorCon" href="undefined2074">CreatorCon</a> the inaugural ServiceNow Developer conference.   Starting on Thursday, April 23rd and running through Friday afternoon, CreatorCon is packed with learning and networking opportunities. Here are a few things you can look forward to</p><p></p><p><strong>Keynote by Pat Casey and Fred Luddy</strong> - Pat Casey, GM of ServiceNow platform business unit and Fred Luddy our founder will kick of the conference with their keynote - get ready to be educated and inspired to build the next generation of cloud applications.</p><p></p><p><strong>Project Led Workshops</strong> - These hour and a half workshops led by the top experts on ServiceNow platform with give you hands on experience on the new Fuji application model, building a mobile application, CMS, Killer UX, Advanced scripting and a lot more.   The workshops are designed to give you the knowledge you can apply in your job right away.</p><p></p><p><strong>Demo led breakouts</strong> - These breakouts are slide light and code / demo heavy to educate you on the newest features and best practices.   Topics include integration best practices, application testing, performance tuning, using APIs effectively.</p><p></p><p><strong>Certified Application Developer Exam</strong> - Be among the first few to get certified as an Application Developer on ServiceNow platform   You can take the exam on site and we are waiving the exam fee ($150) if you take the exam during CreatorCon.</p><p></p><p><strong>Developer Lounge</strong> - Grab a drink and discuss APIs, UI, Domain separation or any other platform topics with our product engineers and product managers.</p><p></p><p><strong>HackZone</strong> - Release your inner geek by playing with Internet of Things (IoT) devices that are integrated with ServiceNow.   A P1 incident just doesnt have to change color on the screen, you can get it to light up a philips hue bulb.   Or have it get displayed on a pebble smart watch.</p><p></p><p>And attend a great party at the legendary <a title="t.ly/19c0YBv" href="http://bit.ly/19c0YBv">House of Blues</a></p><p></p><p>And now for the best part - CreatorCon is absolutely free with your <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/community?id=community_static&sys_id=93c3be65dbdc5bc0b322f4621f961966">Knowledge registration</a>.   Don't miss it   - the learning from this conference will make you a better developer.</p>