---
title: "Enable nonPMs to create projects but edit only their own projects"
date: 2015-04-14T17:29:04.000Z
authors: ["mitzaka"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=4a2ee66ddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961992"
---
<p>Hi guys, I just joined this SIG group and I am happy to share thoughts with you!:)</p><p></p><p>To start off, here is something which I was fighting with lately, in case any of you has had similar needs. I was trying to give some flexibility in our instance when it comes to creating and managing projects by enabling non PMs (regular ITIL users) to create and manage new projects. This was due to the demand that our PM team was limited in number and we had multiple projects moving in various areas. However, I wanted those non-PM guys to be able to edit only the project which they have created, not ones created by others. Governance of all projects remained in the PMs of course.</p><p></p><p>I managed to put together a solution for this in a combined brainstorming with few smart guys from the community. Here is what I did:</p><p></p><p>1. created a custom role, named it 'knowledge_creator'</p><p>2. created a bunch of ACLs for pm_project table (for read, write, create operations), as for 'write' I have the condition "opened_by IS javascript:gs.getUserID() OR project_manager IS javascript:gs.getUserID()"</p><p>3. created a bunch of ACLs for pm_project_task table as well, to enable the users with the custom role to create tasks from within the project.</p><p></p><p>It worked like a charm for us<span __jive_emoticon_name="happy" __jive_macro_name="emoticon" class="jive_macro jive_emote" src="/6.0.3.0/images/emoticons/happy.png"></span> The users with that custom role are able to create projects and project tasks from that project, and able to edit only the projects which they have created, or for which they are marked as project managers.</p><p></p><p>I hope this could be of help to someone. Take care!</p>