---
title: "K Session Review Transform Governance Risk and Compliance with Automation"
date: 2015-04-24T19:14:02.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=49dc6665dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961997"
---
<p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Presenter: <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/community?id=community_user_profile&user=197e0a69dbd41fc09c9ffb651f961967">Garrick Vance</a>, Senior Product Manager, ServiceNow</span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Session title: Transform Governance, Risk, and Compliance with Automation</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Great session from Garrick Vance today on Transforming Governance, Risk, and Compliance with Automation. </span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><br/></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The word is officially out; with the acquisition of Intreis, and the Fuji release, its clear ServiceNow is invested in providing a competitive, and incredibly flexible Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC) solution. This flexibility allows businesses to take advantage of automated GRC regardless of their maturity level.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">I know from experience that GRC process comes in all flavors, and having a strong GRC foundation in Fuji coupled with the ability to address your unique business requirements, means you can have a GRC solutions that meets your business objectives, without complicated and expensive customizations. Great stuff!</span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><br/></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><iframe src="https://youtube.com/embed/atdCd8WPzzI" width="425" height="350"/></span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">I ran into <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/community?id=community_user_profile&user=b1eeca21db181fc09c9ffb651f9619fa">Kris Markham</a> after this session (former CEO of Intreis and new Senior Product Manager for GRC), and I asked him what he was most excited about in Fuji, and he responded:</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">"I'm most excited about the new integration with the <a title="ww.unifiedcompliance.com/" href="https://www.unifiedcompliance.com/">Unified Compliance Framework</a> (UCF). The UCF is an industry vetted compliance database made up of more than 800 laws and standards from around the world. UCF helps organizations cross-map across multiple authoritative sources in order to get to a much smaller simplified set of controls. This boils down to a "test once, comply many" approach to control testing and audit, saving organizations a significant amount of time and money."</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">"I would also call out the new survey-based assessment capabilities that can automate manual attestation processes, and the greatly improved reporting tools which give you greater visibility into compliance activities and status." </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kris also offered up some suggestions for customers who want to implement GRC. </span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><br/></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><strong>Start small…and then automate</strong></span></p><ul><li><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Start by uploading your internal controls and policies into the ServiceNow GRC application leveraging the UCF to understand compliance data overlap (cross-mapping) to simplify your controls environment and move towards a test-once-comply-many approach to control testing and audit.</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Next, identify the most basic level of control testing automation for your super controls in order to standardize and centralize your testing and remediation processes.</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Then, setup SLA's against time sensitive activities including Control Tests, Observations, and Remediation to automate follow-up and escalation.</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Finally, begin leveraging the Risk register to track, inventory, and classify risks across the enterprise.   Leverage compliance data (controls, policies, etc.) and remediation to mitigate and respond to Risks.</span></li></ul><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><strong>Let's get the party started</strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Final question of the day for Kris, "If GRC were having a ServiceNow platform party, who would you invite?" His answer:</span></p><ul><li><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Service Catalog - Request Management - Employee On-boarding &amp; Off-Boarding</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Configuration Management (CMDB)</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Change Management</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Assessments to enable Vendor Risk Assessments</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Data Certification</span></li></ul><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kris said, since I was such a close friend that I could invite some applications to the party as well. My guests are:</span></p><ul><li><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Vendor Management</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 12pt;">PPM</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Release &amp; SDLC</span></li></ul><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><br/></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><strong>Product Management Shout Out</strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Big thanks to <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/community?id=community_user_profile&user=197e0a69dbd41fc09c9ffb651f961967" style="font-size: 16px;">Garrick Vance</a> and <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/community?id=community_user_profile&user=b1eeca21db181fc09c9ffb651f9619fa" style="font-size: 16px;">Kris Markham</a>, Senior Manager, Product Management, for helping me get the word out on GRC today.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><strong>Want to know more?</strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">ServiceNow <a title="ki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=IT_Governance_Risk_and_Compliance" href="http://wiki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=IT_Governance_Risk_and_Compliance">Governance, Risk, and Compliance</a> (GRC) enables organizations to integrate their controls framework into critical IT and business processes in order to automate control testing/audit and enable real-time risk based decision-making.</span></p>