---
title: "K Session Review Everything as a Service Customer Service Case Study"
date: 2015-04-23T20:17:48.000Z
authors: ["morganhunter"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=220eea2ddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96196e"
---
<p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Speakers: Aneel Jaeel, <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/community?id=community_user_profile&user=5acecaaddbd41fc09c9ffb651f961995">Abhijit Mitra</a></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Session Title: Everything as a Service: Customer Service Case Study</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">I'm really loving all the Now on Now presentations this year, and the Customer Service Case Study is no different. This session highlighted just how versatile the platform really is, and ubiquitous nature of Service Management in today's enterprise. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">When ServiceNow embarked on their Now on Now Customer Service journey their goal was to provide closed-loop customer support, integrated with Service Delivery. In my opinion they were quite successful.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">From a business perspective there were four critical requirements they knew they had to take into consideration: </span></p><ol><li><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ability to provide anywhere, anytime support delivered by a global team 24x7x365</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ability to support locations across the Globe provide seamless Follow the Sun support for customers worldwide</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Provide access to knowledge; product documentation, community forums and knowledge base </span></li><li><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ability to handle multiple service models: Core support complemented with Support Account Management Services (fee based)</span></li></ol><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">ServiceNow created an end-to-end solution leveraging multiple aspects of the ServiceNow Platform such as Case Management, Problem Management, Knowledge Management, and Change Management. Specifically ServiceNow used these modules to address the following business requirements:</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><strong>Case Management</strong></span></p><ul><li><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ability to create support case</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Create problem for a case</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Document all troubleshooting steps</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Capture customers communications </span></li><li><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Create report and track progress</span></li></ul><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><strong>Problem Management</strong></span></p><ul><li><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Root cause Analysis (RCA) after events</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tracking fixes for software defects</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ability to capture associated release</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ability to capture related incidents</span></li></ul><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><strong>Knowledge Management</strong></span></p><ul><li><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Searching and finding answers</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Linking solutions and known errors</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Support Engineers contribute to creating knowledge; sharing solutions with peers and customers</span></li></ul><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><strong>Change Management</strong></span></p><ul><li><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Used for any relevant modification of ServiceNow instances</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Link with Configuration Item(s) to instance / node that is affected by the change</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Workflow to capture review/approval steps</span></li></ul><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Service Management is a disciplined approach to structuring work. It applies not only to IT, but all departments within the enterprise and is equally effective with both internal and external requesters. This is a beautiful example of how organizations can pull pieces of the platform together to address business objectives and deliver value back to the business and its customers.   </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><strong>Let's get the party started</strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">I asked Aneel and Abhijit, "If you were throwing a ServiceNow Platform party, who would you invite?" This party is going to start with some old friends and maybe introduce a new one. Aneel and Abhijit would invite Case Management, Problem Management, Knowledge Management, and Change Management. <span style="line-height: 1.5em;">So, I had to ask — can we expect to see Customer Service at next year's platform party? I personally can't wait to see!</span></span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><strong>Product Management Shout Out</strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Big thanks to Aneel Jaeel, VP of Support, and <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/community?id=community_user_profile&user=5acecaaddbd41fc09c9ffb651f961995">Abhijit Mitra</a>, Senior Director of Application Development for helping me get the word out today on Customer Service, on ServiceNow.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><strong>Want to know more?</strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">ServiceNow is changing the way people work. By placing a service-oriented lens on the activities, tasks and processes that make up the day-to-day work life, we enable you to focus on creating a modern work environment. Our service model defines, structures and automates the flow of work, removing email and spreadsheets, so you can streamline the delivery and management of services. (<a title="w.servicenow.com/solutions/service-management.html" href="http://www.servicenow.com/solutions/service-management.html">See more on Service Management on ServiceNow</a>)</span></p>