---
title: "Leveraging Known Errors in HI and Product Issues in the Community"
date: 2015-05-21T21:11:35.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=af7da269dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619f7"
---
<p>Over the past few weeks we've introduced new features <a __default_attr="4232" __jive_macro_name="blogpost" class="jive_macro jive_macro_blogpost" data-orig-content="in HI" href="/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=05cc2265dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961916" modifiedtitle="true" title="in HI">in HI</a> and in <a __default_attr="4219" __jive_macro_name="blogpost" class="jive_macro jive_macro_blogpost" data-orig-content="the Community" href="/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=e27d6269dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619c6" modifiedtitle="true" title="the Community">the Community</a> to allow you to interact with our Known Error articles. I wanted to summarize all these from a task perspective, providing you a map of how and when to use the various features.</p><p></p><h2>When you are experiencing an issue</h2><p></p><p>When some unexpected or odd behaviour manifests itself, we know your first step will be to research it. This may include going to the KB on HI, searching Google, or coming to the Community and seeing what others have said. To help you get the information you need, we've made sure that <a __default_attr="4244" __jive_macro_name="blogpost" class="jive_macro jive_macro_blogpost" data-orig-content="you can find what you" href="/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=844d6ee5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619c5" modifiedtitle="true" title="you can find what you">you can find what you</a> need regardless of your approach. </p><p></p><h2>When you find a matching issue</h2><p></p><p>If you find an appropriate <a __default_attr="3919" __jive_macro_name="blogpost" class="jive_macro jive_macro_blogpost" data-orig-content="Product Issue" href="/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=44bde6a9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961939" modifiedtitle="true" title="Product Issue">Product Issue</a> in the community, you can comment, sharing your own experiences with the scenario. In commenting, you will be automatically subscribed to updates on that thread, so you can be notified when anyone has something to add.</p><p></p><p>Product Issues also allow you to indicate This Affects Me, so even if you don't comment, you will still be letting us know that the Product Issue has been seen in numerous environments.</p><ul><li>This is an indicator, and if we see this growing quickly, we will accelerate our efforts to map or create a new Problem in HI.</li><li>After someone has clicked "This Affects Me" in the community, if there is a linked Known Error in HI, they can also click through to associate their instance</li></ul><p></p><p>If we've already captured and cataloged the issue, in searching you may find a Known Error in HI. Here you have a couple choices:</p><ul><li>You can <a __default_attr="3993" __jive_macro_name="blogpost" class="jive_macro jive_macro_blogpost" data-orig-content="Subscribe to the Known Error" href="/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=5ffca6a5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961983" modifiedtitle="true" title="Subscribe to the Known Error">Subscribe to the Known Error</a>. As certain events occur in the Problem's lifecycle, you will be notified.</li><li>You can indicate <a __default_attr="4232" __jive_macro_name="blogpost" class="jive_macro jive_macro_blogpost" data-orig-content="This Affects Me" href="/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=05cc2265dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961916" modifiedtitle="true" title="This Affects Me">This Affects Me</a>, and link your Instance to the Problem directly - this lets our developers know that the issue manifests itself in environments like yours</li></ul><p></p><h2>When you want to report an issue</h2><p></p><p>Traditionally, to formally report an issue, you had to open an Incident in HI. Though this is still a viable approach, we've created the <a __default_attr="4219" __jive_macro_name="blogpost" class="jive_macro jive_macro_blogpost" data-orig-content="Product Issue" href="/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=e27d6269dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619c6" modifiedtitle="true" title="Product Issue">Product Issue</a> conversation type in the Community. We consider every Product Issue as a potential Known Error. Here are the advantages:</p><ul><li>as you create the new Product Issue, the platform searches previously reported Questions, Product Issues and Known Errors for similarities, and you could be presented with a conversation that has already addressed your situation</li><li>by being an inherently social channel, your community peers will share their own ideas and experiences with you, possibly helping you find a way around the current obstacle<ul><li>Did you know between 80% and 90% of our community posts see a response within 24 hours?</li></ul></li><li>our team will dig into the active and popular Product Issues, and either map them to Known Errors we've found in HI, or use the information to generate a new PRB<ul><li>once mapped, the Product Issue State will be updated automatically by HI as the PRB lifecycle progresses</li></ul></li></ul><p></p><p>Though this reviews many topics we've covered before, I hope this sequential approach shows how the systems are working together and how you can best use them.</p><p></p><p><span style="color: #ff6600;"><strong>What would you like to see added to these features?</strong></span></p>