---
title: "Are You The Next ServiceNow Champion"
date: 2015-06-10T02:00:33.000Z
authors: ["MichaelDortch"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=c5ad62a9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96199b"
---
<p>What makes ServiceNow a market-leading innovator, beyond its technological advantages? What makes the <a title="owledge.servicenow.com/" href="http://knowledge.servicenow.com/">Knowledge</a> conference the "go-to" event for those interested in the future of service management, within and beyond IT? Why has ServiceNow consistently received positive attention from the industry analysts and influencers who matter most?</p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5em;"><br/></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5em;">Are you a ServiceNow customer? If so, the answers to these questions can be found in your nearest mirror.</span></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5em;"><br/></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5em;">ServiceNow customers are some of the smartest and most passionate people in the entire enterprise software industry. Of course, the technological strengths of ServiceNow enable the success of each of these customers. But it's the passion and willingness to share their experiences that make these customers advocates, evangelists, and champions, of ServiceNow and of the enterprise service management vision that underlies the product and the company.</span></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5em;"><br/></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5em;">It is both fascinating and sometimes maddening that there are people who are totally unaware of (and sometimes even skeptical of or even hostile to) all that can be done with ServiceNow. This is sometimes even true within companies that are already using ServiceNow. Maybe even yours, or one or more of your clients if you work at ServiceNow or one of its partners.</span></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5em;"><br/></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5em;">The more people are made aware of all that ServiceNow is doing and can do, the more opportunities will be created for ServiceNow and its supporters to deliver more value to more business operations. But inertia — sitting around waiting for the benefits to happen — won't get there. For successes with ServiceNow to continue to grow, inertia must be met with momentum. And that momentum begins with each and every ServiceNow customer.</span></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5em;"><br/></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5em;">So if you are a ServiceNow customer, and you haven't done so yet, it's time to step up. Don't just bask in the glow of the benefits ServiceNow is delivering to your enterprise. Be a cheerleader. Be an evangelist. Be a ServiceNow champion.</span></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5em;"><br/></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5em;">If you go to relevant industry events, use these as opportunities to tell the story of how ServiceNow is helping your organization. Get yourself invited to participate in Webinars and podcasts hosted by industry analysts and influencers. Encourage your colleagues who aren't already using ServiceNow to explore how it might help them.</span></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5em;"><br/></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5em;">If you or others at your enterprise have created an interesting ServiceNow custom application or integration, share it with the <a title="mmunity.servicenow.com/" href="http://community.servicenow.com/">ServiceNow Community</a>, or consider getting it into the <a title="ore.servicenow.com/" href="http://store.servicenow.com/">ServiceNow Store</a>. Work with ServiceNow or your favorite ServiceNow partner to get your success story (or stories!) written, published, and promoted. And if you haven't done so already, start now to craft a presentation for next year's Knowledge conference.</span></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5em;"><br/></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5em;">Everyone who is succeeding with ServiceNow has a stake in continuing and growing that success, and a role to play in contributing to that continuance and growth. Find your role, and play it. Be a ServiceNow champion!</span></p>