---
title: "Implementing Project and Resource Management  Successfully"
date: 2015-07-15T00:40:17.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=db3d2ee5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961934"
---
<p>There is a temptation to focus only on the implementation of the tool and assume as you build it people will come. I recently implemented the Project and Resource modules in ServiceNow replacing multiple spreadsheets and manual processes. Our PMO tracks and reports on millions of dollars of project activity in Information Services so it was key that the implementation and transition occur without significant issues. I'll share some key points that lead to the success of the implementation.</p><p></p><p>1. Keep it simple - very simple</p><p>Here is the opportunity to implement all those processes and key business rules everyone wanted - don't. We used a strategy of minimum viable product that is implementing the very basics that would cover the finances, tasks and resource assignments. It's a huge lift to get everyone over to the new product and new processes, compounding this transition with complex processes and business rules could make it impossible.</p><p></p><p>2. Middle Management</p><p>Selling Senior Management on the benefits of the new system is not a difficult task at all. Forgetting to address the business value to middle management could be catastrophic. These are the individuals that will be dealing with the system day to day, assigning resources, running reports and managing the finances. We garnered support by creating a Working Commiitte and putting middle management in that committee. The Working Committee provided resources, direction and support for the implementation. This removed what could have been a significant challenge for the project.</p><p></p><p>3. Configuration versus Customization</p><p>One of the fundamental mistakes that are made with the introduction of a new product is that everyone wants nothing to change or for things to stay the same as much as possible(the reverse condition of point #1).. That is not going to happen. For every presentation to the Working Committee I posed the question, "Make the software do what you want or adjust your process to match the software." I tried to limit the customization and focus on configuration.   Longer term upgrades from ServiceNow should not have a significant impact on "custom code".</p><p><br/>Possible Next topics</p><p>- ROI</p><p>- More Key Points on Implementation</p><p>- Implementation Roles</p><p></p><p>Regards,</p><p>Patrick</p>