---
title: "Service Visibility The Ticket to a Clear Path Ahead"
date: 2015-07-30T02:11:16.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=238caae1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961917"
---
<p><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-family: arial, helvetica, sans-serif;">Ever tried to drive though a snowstorm blindfolded? You shouldn't, and neither should your IT Organization.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 1.5em;">We give a lot of thought to visibility in our daily lives by always taking measures to ensure that our every step is clear of obstacles. For example, we check the forecast before leaving our homes, plan our commute around traffic, and we use a GPS device when driving in an unknown area. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-family: arial, helvetica, sans-serif;">With that in mind, why treat IT Operations Management any differently? Why do organizations manage their entire IT infrastructure with zero visibility into how things are connected, and how different parts of the IT infrastructure impact various parts of the business? The answer is simple: They don't have the right tools. But it's not for lack of effort, as some have used different, but inadequate methods to achieve the visibility to efficiently run their business such as manual mapping, or asset discovery products. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-family: arial, helvetica, sans-serif;">Enter ServiceWatch — with its unique ability to automatically discover business services and their associated infrastructure dependencies. ServiceWatch provides the visibility needed to answer the tough questions that IT has, such as what services are affected if a certain server goes down? Or, how will our scheduled database maintenance affect the services provided to end-users? </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-family: arial, helvetica, sans-serif;">For most organizations, having an up-to-date map of their business services is a dream come true, but until now, only few believed it was possible. ServiceWatch ensures that you no longer need to drive though a snowstorm blindfolded, providing you a clear path ahead. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-family: arial, helvetica, sans-serif;">Find out how <a title="ww.servicenow.com/content/dam/servicenow/documents/case-studies/cs_SN_EL%20AL%20Airlines_100614_v1.pdf" href="https://www.servicenow.com/content/dam/servicenow/documents/case-studies/cs_SN_EL%20AL%20Airlines_100614_v1.pdf">El Al Airlines used ServiceWatch</a> to </span><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-family: arial, helvetica, sans-serif;">gain immediate visibility into the health and status of all critical business services from a single screen.</span></p>