---
title: "Plugins ins and outs"
date: 2015-08-05T15:22:14.000Z
authors: ["Slava"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=575eeaaddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619ee"
---
<p style="text-align: justify;">As I was preparing a demo instance for one of the customers last week, I realized how tedious plug-in activation could be. Activating a single plug-in is a piece of cake. But what about a dozen? Waiting for each process to complete before launching the next one is counter-productive. On the other hand, activating several plug-ins in parallel is risky due to increased performance impact and possible conflicts resulting from plug-in dependencies. Moreover, what if you needed to activate a plug-in at a specific time out of business hours?</p><p style="text-align: justify;"></p><p style="text-align: justify;">The obvious answer is scripting, and it did not take me long to find the out-of-box script include that triggers activation of a plug-in when you press <em>Activate</em> button in the dialog window. With the following piece of code, you can launch plug-in activation from <a title="ki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Differences_Among_Scripts" href="http://wiki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Differences_Among_Scripts">any server-side script</a> or even <a title="ki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Creating_a_Scheduled_Job" href="http://wiki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Creating_a_Scheduled_Job">schedule it</a> to take place on a Christmas night without running the risk of missing the family reunion:</p><p style="text-align: justify;"></p><pre __default_attr="javascript" __jive_macro_name="code" class="jive_text_macro _jivemacro_uid_14387648120535762 jive_macro_code" jivemacro_uid="_14387648120535762" modifiedtitle="true">
<p>var worker = new GlidePluginManagerWorker();</p>
<p>worker.setProgressName('plugin_name');               // any descriptive name will do</p>
<p>worker.setPluginId('plugin_id');                           // must match the ID of the plugin</p>
<p>worker.setBackground(true);</p>
<p>worker.start();</p>
</pre><p></p><p>In this example, <em>setPluginId()</em> method tells the system which plug-in to activate while <em>setProgressName()</em> simply assigns a name to the corresponding progress worker. You would typically use the <em>Name</em> of the plug-in here but any descriptive name will do. Should any other plug-ins be required, they will be activated automatically and within the same progress worker.</p><p></p><p>If you are not familiar with progress workers, they are a means of tracking the status of certain types of background processes. When you <a title="ki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Transferring_Update_Sets" href="http://wiki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Transferring_Update_Sets">preview or commit</a> an update set, <a title="ki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Importing_Data_Using_Import_Sets" href="http://wiki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Importing_Data_Using_Import_Sets">import data</a> using import sets, or even <a title="ki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Enabling_Bulk_Requests" href="http://wiki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Enabling_Bulk_Requests">clone a Service Catalog request</a>, there is a record in <em>sys_progress_worker</em> table that displays the current status of the activity and is constantly updated as the process progresses. Progress workers are available from the System Diagnostics application menu.</p><p></p><p>GlidePluginManagerWorker class also has a couple of optional methods for working with plug-in demo data. Depending on your needs, include one of these statements before <em>worker.start()</em> command:</p><p></p><pre __default_attr="javascript" __jive_macro_name="code" class="jive_text_macro jive_macro_code _jivemacro_uid_14387677801066426" jivemacro_uid="_14387677801066426" modifiedtitle="true">
<p>worker.setIncludeDemoData(true);           // load demo data during activation of a plug-in</p>
<p>worker.setLoadDemoDataOnly(true);         // load demo data for a previously activated plug-in</p>
</pre><p></p><p>And last but not least — there is a method for grabbing the sys_id of the relevant progress worker record.</p><p></p><pre __default_attr="javascript" __jive_macro_name="code" class="jive_text_macro jive_macro_code _jivemacro_uid_14387684948014010" jivemacro_uid="_14387684948014010" modifiedtitle="true">
<p>var pw = worker.getProgressID();</p>
</pre><p></p><p>You can have your script query the progress worker record to determine whether activation has completed and trigger subsequent actions such as activation of the next plug-in, an e-mail notification or closure of the corresponding change request.</p><p></p><p>Now that you are fully equipped, give it a try and share your experience and use cases in the comments.</p>