---
title: "Administrators the admin role licensing and keeping things simple"
date: 2015-08-20T04:29:04.000Z
authors: ["Jim Coyne"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=68dd26e9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619d0"
---
<p>Having separate admin accounts has been bugging me for a while now.   Why should we login with one account to do certain work and then another for other work.   We have LDAP/SSO-linked accounts that are usually members of assignment groups with specific roles so we can perform our day-to-day work but have to login with our "admin" account to perform any admin-type work.   Plus it costs 2 licences per administrator.   That's crazy.   So I decided to dig around a bit and came up with <span style="font-size: 13.3333330154419px;">a way for your administrators <span style="font-size: 13.3333330154419px;">to have just one account</span> and it </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5em;">works quite well.</span></p><p></p><p>Try this in dev first, but the following is what you would end up doing in your production instance:</p><ol><li><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5em;">check the "Elevated privilege" on the "admin" Role record and save it<br/></span></li><li><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5em;">in case you have not done this already, create a Group called "ServiceNow Platform Administrators" or something similar</span></li><li>add the "admin" and "security_admin" Roles to the Group</li><li>add your administrators to the Group (their <span style="font-size: 13.3333330154419px;">LDAP/SSO</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5em;">-linked accounts)</span></li><li>the users will inherit the 2 Roles from the Group</li><li>add passwords to the administrators accounts and check the "Password needs reset" field</li><li>have your admins log into the instance through the <a title="ki.servicenow.com/?title=External_Authentication_(Single_Sign-On_-_SSO)#Bypassing_External_Authentication" href="http://wiki.servicenow.com/?title=External_Authentication_(Single_Sign-On_-_SSO)#Bypassing_External_Authentication">side_door.do</a> page using their <span style="font-size: 13.3333330154419px;">LDAP/SSO User ID and new </span><strong>ServiceNow</strong> password</li><li>they'll be asked to change their password</li><li>now they are logged into ServiceNow, <strong>bypassing any external authentication</strong>, with their "regular" everyday permissions</li><li>if they need to do any admin-type work, they can just elevate their privileges</li></ol><p></p><p>This is basically how the "security_admin" role is setup now.   You have to elevate your privileges in order to perform certain tasks.   Why should it be any different for the "admin" role?</p><p></p><p>You can even add a few of the other "*_admin" roles, like "user_admin", "itil_admin", "knowledge_admin", etc... to the Group record so your admins have a little bit more permissions than they would with just "itil" so they do not have to elevate to "admin" as often.</p><p></p><p style="font-size: 13.3333330154419px;">That is all fine and dandy for your production instance, but what about your sub-prod ones?   You do not want to log into dev and then have to elevate to your admin privileges all the time, right?   There's an easy fix for that - just create a <a title="ki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=System_Clone#Preserving_Data_on_the_Target_Instance" href="http://wiki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=System_Clone#Preserving_Data_on_the_Target_Instance">Clone Data Preserver</a> record to preserve your "admin" role record which would not have the "Elevated privilege" field checked.   This way you log into the sub-prod instances and you are an admin immediately without having to elevate.     <span __jive_emoticon_name="cool" __jive_macro_name="emoticon" class="jive_macro jive_emote" src="/6.0.3.0/images/emoticons/cool.png"></span>   If you do go this route, check out this post - <a title=""View Data to Preserve" Tool" __default_attr="170060" __jive_macro_name="thread" class="jive_macro_thread jive_macro" data-orig-content="&quot;View Data to Preserve&quot; Tool" href="/community?id=community_question&sys_id=16434fe1dbd8dbc01dcaf3231f9619c4">"View Data to Preserve" Tool</a>.</p><p style="font-size: 13.3333330154419px;"></p><p>Benefits:</p><ul><li>simple - 1 user = 1 account = 1 license</li><li>save some $$$ on licensing</li><li>protects us from mistakes, just like the "security_admin" role setup</li><li>cannot bypass built-in processes</li><li>allows you to login using just 1 account with external or internal authentication (<strong>crucial if your LDAP/SSO integration is down</strong>)</li><li>gives us "admin" role in sub-prod instances immediately</li></ul><p></p><p>Drawbacks:</p><ul><li>can't think of any</li></ul><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5em;">Thoughts?   I'd appreciate any feedback in case I missed something here.</span></p>