---
title: "Service Availability Done Right"
date: 2015-09-01T03:57:45.000Z
authors: ["Deaddin Edris"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=a56ceaa1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619d0"
---
<p><span style="font-size: 14.0pt; font-family: Calibri;">At ServiceNow, we work very closely with many IT organizations. This gives us a front-row view to the wide variety of challenges that they face. With this unique vantage point, there is one challenge that all organizations encounter: the inability to manage the availability of a business service. While this may seem as a minor issue, it actually severely impacts the ability of IT organizations to identify potentially large issues, figure out their impact and identify their root cause. It's almost like trying to ride a bike with your hands tied behind your back. Few can do it. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 14.0pt; font-family: Calibri;">The problem of service availability is so severe that organizations don't realize that the thousands of events that their IT infrastructure generates per day are impacting critical business services. This leaves many depending on luck to keep the lights on in their data center. Even if the problems are identified, it's practically impossible to pinpoint the faulty component that caused the business service to malfunction. Wouldn't it be easier if someone could just look at a map and see the faulty component highlighted? Science fiction? No, it's fact.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 14.0pt; font-family: Calibri;">ServiceNow provides tools that help ensure service availability and visibility. This significantly reduces the MTTR (Mean Time To Repair), by enabling the NOC (Network Operations Center) to easily identify the root cause of problems and quickly forward them to the right team, avoiding the erroneous routing of problems, which can cause significant business- crippling downtime. Accurate service modeling and impact calculation ensures service availability. <a title="w.servicenow.com/solutions/it-operations-management.html" href="http://www.servicenow.com/solutions/it-operations-management.html">Learn more about ServiceNow's IT Operations Management solutions.</a></span></p>