---
title: "ServiceNow for AWS Manage your Virtual and AWS Cloud Resources from One Dashboard"
date: 2015-10-06T11:26:06.000Z
authors: ["Deaddin Edris"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=adcc2265dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96199a"
---
<p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><strong>Stop by the ServiceNow booth (#134) at <a title="einvent.awsevents.com/index.html" href="https://reinvent.awsevents.com/index.html">AWS re:Invent</a> 2015 and learn more about this solution. (<a title="s.amazon.com/" href="http://aws.amazon.com/">Amazon Web Services - AWS</a>)</strong></span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">As the global adoption of AWS Cloud explodes, it is the platform of choice for enterprises moving their critical workloads and services to the cloud and away from their on-premises data centers, helping enable faster innovation and increased business agility.   This begs the question: can they make this move without compromising security? Will they be able to leverage the same IT tools and processes they currently use? Can they retain the same governance over cloud resources as they do today with their on-premises infrastructure management software and processes? The answer is yes. <a title="w.servicenow.com/products/orchestration/cloud-provisioning.html" href="http://www.servicenow.com/products/orchestration/cloud-provisioning.html">ServiceNow Cloud Management</a> for AWS provides a single solution with standardized blueprints, cost and usage reporting, as well as role-based access to AWS Cloud and on-premises IT resources that users can order through an on-demand service-catalog. And best of all, it is all tightly integrated with their current IT infrastructure. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">How is this possible, you ask? </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">ServiceNow has integrated with AWS to provide comprehensive service lifecycle management for customer applications running on AWS Cloud, using a single system of record.   With it, your users have access to an easy-to-use, self-service portal where they can provision, request, approve, change, manage and correlate event management. They can also conduct real-time configuration management, and service-aware discovery. Imagine your teams having the ability to provision an entire virtual private data center or use cloud formation templates for full stack management with the same security or governance model and tools they use today. That's powerful. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Additionally, you don't have to worry about separately tracking how much AWS Cloud infrastructure you are using. Bills for resources that have been provisioned are managed across your AWS accounts in a single reporting solution that ties billing and usage information together, and then correlates it with the corresponding resources and services in the ServiceNow Configuration Management Database (CMDB).   This gives you a full view of consumption and utilization of both AWS Cloud resources and on-premises infrastructure in one place, along with total cost of ownership of any given service over its lifespan.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">With ServiceNow for AWS, you can capitalize on ServiceNow's single system of record and robust Service Catalog to standardize hybrid infrastructure management, and provide a single security management model for hybrid environments. This integration for end-to-end management ensures your users have fast access to the tools they need to be more productive, and drive the business forward.   This solution allows IT teams to have complete visibility into the usage of AWS Cloud by developers and LOBs, allowing for IT to be relevant and better equipped to support new business initiatives.   IT will never again be the department of "no."</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; font-family: Cambria;">AWS re:Invent 2015 is happening this week in Las Vegas, so stop by the ServiceNow booth (#134) to see a live demonstration and speak to the experts. You can also learn more by watching this on-demand <a title="w.servicenow.com/lpwbr/it-operations-management-and-cloud-provisioning-with-amazon-web-services.html" href="http://www.servicenow.com/lpwbr/it-operations-management-and-cloud-provisioning-with-amazon-web-services.html">Webcast</a>.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="color: #eb7a3d;">Please Share, Like, Comment this blog if you've found it helpful or insightful.</span></p><p></p><hr/><p><span style="color: #e23d39;">For other Expert Knowledge</span></p><p><span style="font-size: 11pt;"><strong><a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/bit.ly/1njDGAZ">Ask A Developer</a>             <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/bit.ly/1Pg93au">What's In Store For IT Leaders in 2016 </a>           <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/bit.ly/1PxAtEE">ServiceNow Online Learning Courses   </a>       <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/bit.ly/1Qo39TY">ServiceNow Foundations: User Interface</a></strong></span></p><hr/><p><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12pt; font-family: Calibri;">   </span></p>