---
title: "How Qualcomm Drives Efficiency  Availability Through ServiceAware IT Operations"
date: 2015-11-30T22:25:05.000Z
authors: ["sarah.manning"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=8f7ce2e1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961917"
---
<p><span style="font-size: 14.0pt; font-family: Calibri;">Qualcomm is one of the largest and most successful manufacturers and innovators of the technology in many of the world's mobile devices and electronics. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 14.0pt; font-family: Calibri;">Over four years ago, Qualcomm's IT department struggled with lengthy incident and request wait times for end users and needed a way to increase visibility into the IT service process while improving overall productivity of the service desk. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 14.0pt; font-family: Calibri;">To relieve these pain points, Qualcomm created a service request kiosk application on the ServiceNow platform. The kiosk is provided at Qualcomm IT walk-up centers and allows employees to more rapidly request and receive hardware, software and services — picture a self-service Apple genius bar. The application provides employees with more visibility into the status of their request and makes more efficient use of IT resources, improving the satisfaction of all employees.   </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 14.0pt; font-family: Calibri;">Today, Qualcomm continues to rely on the ServiceNow platform to support ongoing innovation and progress. They are raising the bar on service availability within IT and beyond. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 14.0pt; font-family: Calibri;">We were thrilled to have Qualcomm share their IT operations success story at the 2015 Gartner Data Center conference in Las Vegas, and hear how they are redefining IT to help advance mobile technology.</span></p><p></p><p style="margin-bottom: 8.0pt; margin-left: 77.7pt; text-indent: -77.75pt;"><span style="font-size: 14.0pt; font-family: Calibri;"><strong>To watch a recording of Qualcomm's session, please <a title="rtner.mediasite.com/Mediasite/Play/ed594accc2364ba1816019b28e49b88f1d" href="http://gartner.mediasite.com/Mediasite/Play/ed594accc2364ba1816019b28e49b88f1d">click here</a>.<br/></strong></span></p>