---
title: "Geneva Change Management  Making Change a Little Less Painful"
date: 2015-12-11T05:44:31.000Z
authors: ["mike.malcangio"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=89dc6665dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961991"
---
<p style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';"><span style="font-family: helvetica;"><a title="ocs.servicenow.com/release_notes/geneva-release-notes.html" href="https://docs.servicenow.com/release_notes/geneva-release-notes.html">Geneva</a> is here, which means we finally get to talk about some of the great functionality that's packed into the release. In a series of articles over the new few weeks, I will introduce and review all of the enhancements that we've made to Change Management. We've revisited the fundamentals of Change Management to make it easier for your organization to implement, to better align with industry best practice, and to leverage lessons learned from thousands of implementations of ServiceNow. </span></p><p style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';"></p><p style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';"><span style="font-family: helvetica;">We'll start with a brief review of what Change Management is and why it's important to your organization. Change Management is the process that enables you to mitigate the risks of introducing change into your environment. Implemented properly, and with ongoing execution by the organization, it will minimize disruptions to services, foster better communication with stakeholders, and lead to more consistent and repeatable outcomes for the changes being executed. This ultimately saves the company a lot of time and money, which when it comes down to it — who wouldn't want that.</span></p><p style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';"></p><p style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';"><span style="font-family: helvetica;">Now that we've reviewed what the Change Management process is and what it is supposed to achieve, let's take a peek at the upcoming articles in the series that will cover the enhancements made in Geneva:</span></p><p style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';"></p><ul><li><span style="font-family: helvetica;">Take Control of Your Low Risk with Standard Change Catalog - This will introduce you the new Standard Change Catalog and what it can do for your organization.</span></li><li><span style="font-family: helvetica;">Seamlessly Avoid Change Conflicts in Geneva - Review what Conflict Detection is, why it's important, and what improvements were made to Geneva.</span></li><li><span style="font-family: helvetica;">Small Changes with Big Impacts to Change Management - We'll look at some of the smaller new features that will make Change Management even easier to use: Form Improvements, On Hold, Copy Change, and Multiple CI</span></li><li><span style="font-family: helvetica;">Driving Change Management Using An Improved State Model - A review of the new state model and it helps drive your Change process.</span></li></ul><p></p><p style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';"><span style="font-family: helvetica;">If you want a preview, you're welcome to check out the release notes specifically for <a title="ocs.servicenow.com/release_notes/it_service_management/r_ChangeManagementRN.html" href="https://docs.servicenow.com/release_notes/it_service_management/r_ChangeManagementRN.html">Change Management</a>.</span></p>