---
title: "Seeking Web Application Developer for Intel in Portland OR"
date: 2015-12-10T00:50:22.000Z
authors: ["carlotta.sanchez@vanderhouwen"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=dbad66a9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619d1"
---
<p><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">Apply at: <a href="http://vanh.bosmaxhire.net/cp/?E5596F361D43717B7A591365395317690C627F" title="http://vanh.bosmaxhire.net/cp/?E5596F361D43717B7A591365395317690C627F">http://vanh.bosmaxhire.net/cp/?E5596F361D43717B7A591365395317690C627F</a> </span></p><p><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;"><span>OR email: </span><a title="k-email-small" class="jive-link-email-small" href="mailto:carlotta.sanchez@vanderhouwen.com">carlotta.sanchez@vanderhouwen.com</a><span> </span></span></p><p></p><p></p><p><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">Summary<br/>Our client is the leader in computing innovation and helps foster personal computers Worldwide. In 2014 they were one of the top Companies to work for, #15 for the Best Global Green Brands and constantly reinventing their products to develop more energy-efficient microprocessors. They push the boundaries of smart and connected technology for everyone worldwide, as one of the highest valued semiconductor chip makers. Our client is currently experiencing rapid growth and is dedicated to bringing in the right people to help stay ahead.</span></p><p><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">Our client is looking for an experienced Web Application Architect to develop an exceptional software distribution platform. This position will support a group building a solution on Service-now to manage assets, Test and Validation equipment, as well as silicon samples that are being validated. This specific engagement will be to build custom apps using Service-now. The resources should be able to provide prototypes or working websites that they developed to demonstrate the use of JQuery, HTML, JavaScript, bootstrap, Angular and frame works. <strong>***</strong><span style="color: #303030;"><em style="text-decoration: underline;"><strong>At least one year of experience with developing customizations on Service-now is required.</strong></em></span><strong>***</strong></span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">Responsibilities: <br/>Assessing the business need and crafting robust and scalable application architecture.<br/>Designing and documenting the solution architecture, leading a team of IT software development professionals.<br/>Acting as a 'working architect' by also playing a developer role on the team. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">Qualifications Required:<br/>BS degree in Computer Science, Computer Engineering or equivalent. <br/>Minimum of 5-7 years of industry experience in software architecture and writing solutions using Java technology skills and experience in a web-based application development environment. <br/>Experience with design patterns along with working knowledge of Unix/Linux/Windows is essential. <br/>Strong knowledge of DBMS concepts from an application development perspective.<br/>Experience in working with relational databases including SQL development skills. <br/><strong>Experience on ServiceNow platform.</strong><br/>Experience developing highly interactive Web applications with JavaScript. <br/>Excellent object-oriented JavaScript skills; experience with YUI3 or any other JavaScript framework such as Angular, Knockout, Backbone, or JQuery.<br/>Experience of modern web development toolkits and libraries such as Backbone, Underscore, Angular, Ember, JQuery, etc. <br/>Knowledge of Unit Testing.<br/>Selenium / Fitnesse.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">Qualifications Preferred:<br/>Exceptional HTML and CSS.<br/>Experience of developing with RESTful JSON APIs.<br/>Ability to contribute to testing and implementation approach for presentation layer. <br/>Interest and ability to work further down the stack.<br/>Experience with responsive design principles.<br/>XML experience - Practical knowledge of working within a continuous build environment including working with a Source Control Management tool. <br/>Atlassian suite of tools, Confluence and JIRA experience. <br/>Experience of agile development processes an advantage.<br/>Previous exposure to the educational software environment and familiarity with industry standards and specifications an advantage - Experience of internationalization / localization an advantage. <br/>Possess excellent communication skills, the drive to succeed and work independently and on a team, with the ability to multi task, and deliver quality results.</span></p>