---
title: "Project and Portfolio Management Predictions"
date: 2015-12-22T05:49:19.000Z
authors: ["pattywen"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=de1e626ddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961919"
---
<p><strong>My prediction:</strong></p><p style="text-align: center;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><em><strong>ServiceNow will be in the Leader Quadrant of Gartner's Magic Quadrant for Project and Portfolio Management (PPM) tools in 2018.</strong></em></span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><em>Why?</em></span></p><ol><li>For 2015, Gartner decided that they evaluate project and portfolio management tools using two separate quadrants: One for client hosted applications, and one for cloud-based applications. The maturity of cloud based tools does not yet compare to hosted applications. However, Gartner suggests that cloud-based PPM tools provide a more flexible and fast evolving method for adapting to the continuing change of business needs.</li><li>When people think of highly successful enterprise cloud offerings, three companies are usually highlighted: Workday, SalesForce, and ServiceNow. Of these three, only ServiceNow has a project and portfolio management suite.</li><li>With the coming ServiceNow Geneva release, there is significant additional functionality and a much smoother interface for project planning. ServiceNow has invested in both Agile and Waterfall delivery approaches to IT projects — and, has some smooth reporting and workflows to give good program and portfolio views.</li></ol><p></p><p>Yes, I like ServiceNow's PPM offering, they call it PPS (Project and Portfolio Suite),   I think you will too.</p><p></p><p>I predict that with the commitment to maturation ServiceNow has of their PPM process, continued investment, and great partners building accelerators to improve the product, Service Now will be appearing in the Gartner Magic quadrant soon. Planview and Innotas, watch-out!!</p>