---
title: "Are you a creator"
date: 2014-01-10T04:28:06.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=44fd622ddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619c3"
---
<p>Have you ever wondered why you can access thousands of apps on your phone, yet are stuck with e-mail and spreadsheets to do work in your enterprise?   And wished there was an app for that?   ServiceNow creators are doing just that in an enterprise — building useful business applications and changing the enterprise app landscape.</p><p></p><p>Application creation has traditionally been a complex, time consuming and expensive proposition — this has been due to the underlying complexity of the platforms and the highly technical skills needed to build applications.   Also, enhancing applications over time is neither easy nor cheap. These factors have resulted in a situation wherein IT is unable to meet the business demand for apps — leaving users to their own means.   According to a Gartner study this gap between the needs of the users and the IT's ability to meet it, which they call the "IT debt" is approaching $1T!   Our mission at ServiceNow is to close that gap by — a) radically simplifying the platform and b) by empowering a new class of individuals to build and enhance the applications — the <strong><em>ServiceNow creators</em></strong>.</p><p><em><br/></em></p><p><em>ServiceNow creators create new applications by using the CreateNow Development Suite.</em>   These individuals need not have highly technical skills or even need to know coding to be able to create useful business applications.   They could be business analysts, system administrators or even savvy end users.   The CreateNow Development Suite allows these Creators to build and enhance applications with clicks. And deploying this platform whether to a single department or the entire enterprise is a snap, thanks to the underlying platform.</p><p>ServiceNow Creators have already built thousands of applications for HR, Finance, Legal, Marketing and more. Become a creator   lead the app revolution in your enterprise!</p>