---
title: "Whats The Future Of ITSM"
date: 2014-02-05T23:06:51.000Z
authors: ["stephenmann"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=814ee2addbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96199d"
---
<p>"What's the future of IT service management (ITSM)?" It's probably the wrong question, as the future of ITSM probably doesn't involve the acronym "ITSM." But, before Christmas I was asked to pull some thoughts together on the future of ITSM, and the <a title="" _jive_internal="true" data-containerid="2927" data-containertype="37" data-objectid="1317" data-objecttype="38" href="/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=34bc6a25dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96197b">future of service desk</a>, for a partner seeking a ServiceNow perspective for a prospect presentation.</p><p></p><p>Ten pages of typed notes later I was unsure that I'd personally established a clear vision of the future of ITSM but it did give them (and me) a number of areas to take into consideration when envisioning the future. I cover them at a high level in this blog but hope to return to them individually in the not too distant future.</p><p></p><p><strong>Is the future of ITSM a buzzword jigsaw?</strong></p><p></p><p>The first thing that struck me (when creating the notes) was the number of topics and/or buzzwords that come into play with both topics. Which can be divided into three areas:</p><p></p><ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li><strong>Customer-related: </strong>customer-centricity, "outside-in", business outcomes, customer experience, service experience, consumerization of IT, social, etc.</li><li><strong>Technology-related: </strong>cloud, mobile, analytics, "big data," BYOD, etc.</li><li><strong>Service-related: </strong>service integration and its variants SIAM (service integration and management) and MSI (multi-supplier service integration), service brokerage, etc. plus the variants of the customer-related ones above.</li></ul><p></p><p>And that while we hear different people talking of, or writing about, all of these topics and more, we have an issue in that we, as people in the domain of IT, tend to tackle each of these topics in isolation; and most likely from a technology POV.</p><p></p><p>Mobile is a great example. Where, with an overly technical focus, we will talk of mobile as the challenges and opportunities related to:</p><p></p><ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li>Security;</li><li>Device selection;</li><li>App development;</li><li>Cloud back-ends;</li><li>New people and technical skills to deal with the technology creation and delivery; and</li><li>Security [<em>sic</em>].</li></ul><p></p><p>But how many "IT people" are talking about the real mobile challenge and opportunity — the fact that employees and customers want and need to access IT and business services while they are on the move? In particular:</p><p></p><ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li>That all of the IT people, infrastructure, third-party services, applications, and devices combine into a service that is ultimately consumed by an employee, customer, supplier, or partner.</li><li>That all of these IT efforts only generate value once a service is consumed.</li><li>That the success of the corporate IT organization needs to be measured not at the point of IT creation but rather at the point of IT or business service consumption.</li></ul><p></p><p>And that, these days, a bad mobile app might be worse, from a customer experience perspective, than having no mobile app at all.</p><p></p><p><strong>So is it the future of ITSM and the service desk? Or is it the future of service?</strong></p><p></p><p>So in my notes I wrote about 15 ITSM and service desk-related areas, each of which will influence the future of IT service delivery to different degrees. And, as I can't get away with a 10-page blog, I'll need to write more about many of these at a later date:</p><p></p><ol><li><a title="" _jive_internal="true" data-containerid="2927" data-containertype="37" data-objectid="1358" data-objecttype="38" href="/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=7e6c6ea1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619d2">Managing service expectations</a> and the service experience will be key to success — which leads to #2.</li><li><a title="" _jive_internal="true" data-containerid="2927" data-containertype="37" data-objectid="2772" data-objecttype="38" href="/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=ec8c66e1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961921">Consumer experiences</a> will drive corporate service expectations.</li><li>IT will need to <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://blogs.forrester.com/stephen_mann/11-11-16-warning_your_journey_to_demonstrating_it_delivered_value_passes_through_the_quaint_little_town_of_und" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">target business value over cost</a>.</li><li>Savvy IT organizations will help other corporate service providers improve service delivery and service experience. ServiceNow calls it <a title="" _jive_internal="true" data-containerid="2927" data-containertype="37" data-objectid="1321" data-objecttype="38" href="/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=c0ecaa65dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961971">service relationship management</a>.</li><li>CIOs and IT organizations will need to reassert their position in the enterprise — which leads to #6.</li><li>IT will need to redefine its role before it becomes an IT service delivery "bit-player."</li><li>IT will also need to get much better at <a title="" _jive_internal="true" data-containerid="2927" data-containertype="37" data-objectid="1328" data-objecttype="38" href="/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=1c5de229dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619e0">marketing itself</a> and its achievements.</li><li><a title="" _jive_internal="true" data-containerid="2927" data-containertype="37" data-objectid="1354" data-objecttype="38" href="/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=62bc2e25dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96198f">SIAM</a><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5em;"> (service integration and management) capabilities will be important for organizations employing multiple service providers/delivery models.</span></li><li><a title="" _jive_internal="true" data-containerid="1148" data-containertype="37" data-objectid="2806" data-objecttype="38" href="/community/learn/blog/2014/02/03/the-consumerization-of-hr-yes-consumerization-is-not-just-an-it-thing">All corporate service providers</a> will need to embrace the increased importance of automation to improving service delivery operations.</li><li>That IT will need to cope with increased service desk and support complexity based on both people and technology changes.</li><li>There will be <a title="" _jive_internal="true" data-containerid="2927" data-containertype="37" data-objectid="1308" data-objecttype="38" href="/community/blogs/blog/2013/07/10/1308">continued service desk consolidation</a> — and not just of IT service desks. Standardization will be key.</li><li>New and varied support channels will need to be accommodated, driven by #2.</li><li><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5em;">New support technologies will both drive and enable #12.</span></li><li>The new technologies and services IT will need to manage will make ITSM, or whatever it becomes, both simpler and more complicated depending on an IT organization's ability to adapt to the new service landscape.</li><li>Increased employee or customer expectations will bring focus to the quality of support and customer service — which sort of brings us full circle back to bullet #1.</li></ol><p></p><p>I appreciate that some of these might mean little to the reader as single, and possibly opaque, sentences. So I've added links to other relevant blogs until I get the time to expand on some of the bullet points. But for me we should definitely be talking about the future of service.</p><p></p><p><strong><em>So what do you think about the future of ITSM? What did I miss? What did I get wrong?</em></strong> I imagine that this is probably closer to the here-and-now than it is to a Jetsons' future. But for me this isn't a bad thing — IMO getting people to the future is so much harder than predicting it.</p>