---
title: "Observations On ITSM Or Should I Say Service Management In Israel"
date: 2014-02-05T17:25:24.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=7c9ceae1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96197b"
---
<p>Last week I was lucky enough to spend a week working in Israel. While there I met with a number of customers and potential customers along with two of my local ServiceNow colleagues Limor Afik and Gidi Alfassi.</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p>As with previous blogs I've written on IT service management (ITSM) in different geographies (such as the <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://blogs.forrester.com/stephen_mann/12-03-12-it_service_management_itil_and_enabling_tools_in_the_middle_east" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Middle East</a> and <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://blogs.forrester.com/stephen_mann/13-03-20-itsm_and_the_itsmf_in_norway_different_in_so_many_ways" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Norway</a> while at Forrester) this is not a scientific or statistically robust piece of research or analysis. I merely offer up a series of observations based on a limited number of in-person interactions.</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><strong>My ITSM observations …</strong></p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p>It's worth stating that it was an interesting mix of organizations from a size, global presence, and industry vertical perspective. Also, from a potential customer perspective, you couldn't escape the evidence of Israel's thriving technology industry that we read about in the press.</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p>And, while all the companies were different, there were definitely some common themes:</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><ul><li><strong>ITIL</strong>, the IT service management (ITSM) best practice framework formerly known as the IT Infrastructure Library, was a common across all conversations. But importantly it didn't drive the conversations — it was more that the companies wanted consistency of process/operations based on industry best or good practice. The real drivers were operational efficiency and delivering better services. It was business and customer driven.</li><li><strong>An affinity for SaaS/cloud delivered services</strong>. I guess you could argue that they wouldn't be using or looking to use ServiceNow otherwise. So I'll move on quickly here.</li><li><strong>A desire to move beyond incident, problem, and change</strong>. There was another common theme here too. In my opinion, the next steps related to better stewardship of the IT estate and operations (including third-party provided services) through better financial management, asset management, and configuration management</li><li><strong>The use of ITSM, or service management, outside of IT</strong>. What ServiceNow calls <a title="" _jive_internal="true" data-containerid="2927" data-containertype="37" data-objectid="1321" data-objecttype="38" href="/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=c0ecaa65dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961971">service relationship management</a>, or enterprise service management, was a common conversation. As was talk about the impact of <a title="" _jive_internal="true" data-containerid="2927" data-containertype="37" data-objectid="2772" data-objecttype="38" href="/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=ec8c66e1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961921">Consumerization</a> on all corporate service providers, not just the IT organization.</li><li><strong>The future direction of ServiceNow</strong>. From what was delivered with the <a title="" _jive_internal="true" data-containerid="2927" data-containertype="37" data-objectid="2766" data-objecttype="38" href="/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=d17dee29dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961928">Dublin release</a> through to the Eureka and Fuji releases. Not that I can claim to know much about what my product management colleagues have planned for Fuji … other than a jaw-droppingly amazing new UI that ServiceNow Founder and CPO <a title="" _jive_internal="true" class="jiveTT-hover-user jive-link-profile-small" data-containerid="-1" data-containertype="-1" data-objectid="2005" data-objecttype="3" href="/community?id=community_user_profile&user=11409ae5db581fc09c9ffb651f9619ca">Fred Luddy</a> demoed in January.</li></ul><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><strong>A couple of other interesting observations …</strong></p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p>Limor and I also spoke with a local industry analyst, <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://www.stki.info/index.php?page_id=10" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Pini Cohen</a> of STKI. It was an interesting conversation but one of Pini's comments was a real surprise. That one of the traditional Big 4 ITSM tool vendors, and not one of the two you would expect, has a larger than usual historical ITSM footprint in Israel due to ruthlessly dropping prices to win deals. While price is always important I wonder how many of these low-price investments really paid off for the customer?</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p>Finally, and this might be an indication of my inherent, standoffish Britishness, I was amazed at the relationships between Limor, Gidi, and their customers. It was all hugs and smiles, a real familiarity and even friendships. When I asked about it, Limor explained that she hadn't just sold them technology; she had sold them a solution. And that she was still part of delivering that solution post-sale; she was part of the customer team, working along with local ServiceNow partners, to deliver against ServiceNow's promises.</p>