---
title: "Understanding HR Case Management"
date: 2014-02-26T03:43:36.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=fb3d6ee5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961979"
---
<p><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; font-family: Arial;">Unresolved employee requests, wasted resources, mishandling of confidential information and inefficient processes are all risks faced by Human Resource (HR) organizations today.   And they could have serious consequences if mismanaged.   To help mitigate these risks many organizations are turning to cloud based HR Case Management solutions.   HR Case Management is an application-based software designed to track, manage, and monitor all interaction that occurs between employees and Human Resource representatives. Some of the more robust HR Case Management solutions, like <strong>ServiceNow's HR Service Automation</strong>, also provide the capability to manage a number of core HR functions, including: fulfillment of HR services, delivery of information, KPI reporting, self-service and more.   </span></p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; font-family: Arial;">As an Engagement Manager I have had the opportunity to lead the deployment of HR Case Management within customer environments.   While each organization has its own requirements and metrics for success most implement this type of a solution with the following over-arching objectives in mind: </span></p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><ul style="list-style-type: circle;"><li><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; font-family: Arial;">Increased transparency and customer satisfaction in the delivery of HR services</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; font-family: Arial;">Reduced overall cost to deliver HR services</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; font-family: Arial;">Consistent adherence to company policies and procedures</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; font-family: Arial;">Increased efficiency, consistency, and accuracy </span></li></ul><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; font-family: Arial;">For a more in-depth look at the benefits and value proposition of implementing HR Case Management check out my other post titled <em>Exploring the Benefits — HR Case Management.   </em></span></p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; font-family: Arial;">If your organization is in the process of building a business case and evaluating HR Case Management solutions I would like to share a few recommendations based on my experience.   </span></p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><ol><li><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; font-family: Arial;">Do your homework - Not all HR Case Management solutions are created equal.   How the software is provided, the functions, features, and capabilities can range significantly from vendor to vendor.   </span></li><li><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; font-family: Arial;">Select a reputable vendor with a solid history of customer success and documented testimonials.   Ask to talk with their customers to gain insight and feedback on lessons learned. </span></li><li><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Select a solution that offers you the highest probability of success today and in the future.   As your HR organization evolves so to will your HR systems and processes. Selecting a solution that will support these changes efficiently and without hefty maintenance or upgrade fees will be critical to your long-term success. </span></li></ol><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; font-family: Arial;">Lets face it, in order to remain competitive in todays ever evolving corporate landscape we must always be striving to improve customer experience and delivery of services.   A well-planned and implemented HR Case Management system can provide your HR organization with the framework and insight necessary to stay ahead of the curve and keep your employees happy.   </span></p>