---
title: "Implementing ServiceNow Dont forget about Training"
date: 2014-03-07T01:55:59.000Z
authors: ["LearnMoreDoMore"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=19cdeea9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619a8"
---
<p style="margin-bottom: .0001pt;"><span style="font-family: Arial;">Speaking from experience, a ServiceNow deployment is filled with endless milestones, action items, and due dates. As a member of the process governance team, I was involved every step of the way. Our QuickStart focused on Incident, Problem, Change, and Service Catalog. Not only was I overseeing the Incident, Problem, and Change processes with their respective owners, but I was also the process owner for the Service Catalog. </span></p><p style="margin-bottom: .0001pt;"><span style="font-family: Arial;"> </span></p><p><span style="font-family: Arial;">With process change comes the need for training. The daunting task to create and organize training would have fallen to me. Thankfully, our company purchased Fulfiller Training from ServiceNow with our QuickStart package. What a relief!</span></p><p><span style="font-family: Arial;"> </span></p><p><span style="font-family: Arial;">Industry standard states that 1 hour of training delivery takes about 40 hours worth of time to develop. Over the course of a month, with a handful of short meetings, the training department at ServiceNow learned our configuration, developed the training materials, and delivered the training for each process to our designated "super users". All that was left for us to do was organize our "super users" to train various departments and locations, which took about a week. ServiceNow's Training department saved us over four weeks of valuable project time. Time that was spent completing nearly 50 Service Catalog items and Record Producers in time for an early launch! </span></p><p><span style="font-family: Arial;"> </span></p><p><span style="font-family: Arial;">During the ServiceNow deployment life cycle, you spend a substantial amount of time configuring the platform to fit all of your business needs. You need your process users to be able to utilize all of the functionality you have configured. If you want the ServiceNow training team to help your team maximize what your fulfillers get out of the platform, learn more about our training program at: <a title="w.servicenow.com/services/training-and-certification/fulfiller-training.html" href="http://www.servicenow.com/services/training-and-certification/fulfiller-training.html">http://www.servicenow.com/services/training-and-certification/fulfiller-training.html</a></span></p>