---
title: "An unofficial IT GRC track at Knowledge "
date: 2014-04-25T18:01:48.000Z
authors: ["Scott Ferguson"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=6f6caea1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619d8"
---
<p><span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">Due to the stunning increase in the amount of regulatory and industry requirements such as: Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX), Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS), Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), and Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) a methodology commonly referred to as Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC) emerged.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">Meeting with a group of my ServiceNow peers, all with a strong interest in the GRC disciplines, we decided there needed to be a special GRC track at Knowledge 14.     Not to take anything away from the official Knowledge tracks, below is our list of sessions we felt would put you in rooms with others that have similar governance interests. </span></p><p></p><p><strong style="font-size: 9.0pt;">IT Governance, Risk and Audit Management</strong></p><p><span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">April 29, 2:30-3:20 in Moscone West 3020</span></p><p><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; text-decoration: underline;">Speaker</span><span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">: Stacey Card, IT Risk Manager, Kingfisher</span></p><p><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; text-decoration: underline;">Summary</span><span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">: Kingfisher is Europe's largest home improvement retailer, with more than 1,080 stores in nine countries and 78,000 employees. IT governance, risk management and audit readiness are both critical and challenging.   In this session, you'll learn from the company's IT Services team experiences in implementing the ServiceNow IT Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC) module. You'll come away understanding the basic considerations, the benefits realized at Kingfisher, lessons learned, and details of the resulting deployment.</span></p><p></p><p><strong style="font-size: 9.0pt;">LAB: IT Governance, Risk and Compliance (ITGRC): End Audit Pain</strong></p><p><span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">April 29, 3:40-5:40 in Moscone West 3002/3004</span></p><p><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; text-decoration: underline;">Speaker</span><span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">: Guy Yedwab, ServiceNow and Giora Tamir, ServiceNow</span></p><p><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; text-decoration: underline;">Summary</span><span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">: IT governance, risk and compliance (GRC) helps bring order to enterprises' crazy quilt of overlapping regulations, redundant audit programs and manual processes. IT GRC supports documenting policies and procedures, defining and assessing risks, defining controls, generating audits and tracking remediation tasks. This lab will focus on creating control tests using the new Compliance Templates.</span></p><p></p><p><strong style="font-size: 9.0pt;">Achieving SOX Compliance with the CMDB</strong></p><p><span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">April 30, 1:40-2:30 in Moscone West 3016</span></p><p><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; text-decoration: underline;">Speaker</span><span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">: John Eddy, IT Client Service Manager, Spansion Inc.</span></p><p><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; text-decoration: underline;">Summary</span><span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">: Spansion is a leading provider of flash memory solutions. To help ensure compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) regulations, the company manages its termination process globally with ServiceNow, creating 30 tasks for each termination processed. The Spansion team added User Account information to the ServiceNow CMDB, then modified then instructed ServiceNow to invoke a task only if the person being terminated was assigned an account. With these steps, the team reduced the creation of unnecessary tasks by more than 50 percent. </span></p><p></p><p><strong style="color: #2e2e2e; font-size: 9.0pt;">GRC Automation: Bringing Control Tests Full Circle</strong></p><p><span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">May 1, 11:20-12:10 in Moscone West 3014</span></p><p><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; text-decoration: underline;">Speaker</span><span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">: Chris Sherman, Developer, Careworks Tech and Donald McMullen, ServiceNow Administrator, CareWorks Tech</span></p><p><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; text-decoration: underline;">Summary</span><span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">: ServiceNow IT GRC control tests are an excellent tool for compliance-oriented employers to enforce policies and mitigate risks. In an effort to use our time efficiently for audit data reviews and policy conformance checks, Careworks wanted to automate their control tests.   In this session, you'll learn how they automated this complex process with ServiceNow using a variety of methods including filters to schedule specific record queries or using business rules and workflows to assign the results of these scheduled jobs to specific groups and assign to appropriate personnel for review and actions. You'll also see how they brought it full circle by highlighting the results on a custom dashboard.</span></p><p></p><p><strong style="font-size: 9.0pt;">GRC Meets CMDB at Broward Health</strong></p><p><span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">May 1 12:40-1:30 in Moscone West 3003</span></p><p><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; text-decoration: underline;">Speaker</span><span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">: Vijo Menon, Systems Consultant and IT Process Architect, Broward Health</span></p><p><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; text-decoration: underline;">Summary</span><span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">: Governance, risk and compliance (GRC) are critical elements of IT service management and automation, especially for enterprises under constant regulatory scrutiny. To address these challenges, Broward Health has extended the capability of the ServiceNow CMDB to include support for governance and security industry frameworks and best practices. The company is also using ServiceNow to determine if vendors meet the company's corporate compliance and security requirements.   In this session, Broward Health will describe its use of ServiceNow to improve GRC and security for firewall management, and offer recommendations that can help you to achieve similar successes at your enterprise.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">When Knowledge has concluded and you want to see more about what ServiceNow can do in ITGRC for your organization, do not hesitate to reach out.   We can show you how ServiceNow can help you</span><span class="tx"> proactively manage process controls by aligning those controls with departmental and corporate policies. Additionally, you can automate the collection of testing evidence </span>and automate reporting.   With ServieNow's IT GRC you can strengthen an organization's position with respect to external audits, and reduce compliance reporting costs and improve the ability to address IT risks.</p>