---
title: "ServiceNow to Live Stream Knowledge Conference Keynote Presentations"
date: 2014-04-21T21:44:28.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=7c7dae29dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619ee"
---
<p class="p1">Each of our Knowledge14 keynote presentations will be webcast live form the Knowledge14 ® conference on April 29, 30 and May 1, 2014. </p><p class="p2"></p><p class="p1">"Defining the Service-Oriented Enterprise" - Frank Slootman, ServiceNow president and chief executive officer, presents Tuesday, April 29 from 8:00 to 9:30 a.m. Pacific. Slootman will show how IT can use its successful roots to drive service transformation throughout the enterprise and deliver more value than ever seen before. The keynote includes a first-hand showcase of enterprise service management applications that produce considerable value for companies. Viewers can see how to automate the most mundane, tactical activities and enable IT to become heroes of innovation and drivers of the service-oriented enterprise.</p><p class="p2"></p><p class="p1">"Empowering the Service-Oriented Enterprise" — Fred Luddy, ServiceNow founder and chief product officer, presents Wednesday, April 30 from 8:00 to 9:50 a.m. Pacific. Luddy will unveil the latest ServiceNow innovations that deliver a more intuitive user experience and transform professional and 'citizen' developers into ServiceNow Creators. Viewers will see how the threshold for app development has dropped with service-oriented applications that can be created by ordinary people faster and easier than ever before.</p><p class="p2"></p><p class="p1">"Running the Service-Oriented Enterprise" — Dan McGee, ServiceNow senior vice president of engineering and cloud operations, presents Thursday, May 1 from 9:00 to 9:50 a.m. Pacific. McGee will discuss why the ServiceNow enterprise IT cloud is challenging traditional clouds by setting new industry standards for cloud scalability, security and availability. He will demonstrate how a true enterprise cloud can be transparent and customers can have a say about how their environments are managed. Attendees will experience a backstage tour of ServiceNow to understand how the company develops, monitors, manages and supports customer instances.</p><p class="p2"></p><p class="p1">Webcast Details</p><p class="p1">To view the live stream of the Knowledge14 keynotes, please go the BuzzHub at community.servicenow.com. A replay of each webcast will be available later each day on the BuzzHub.</p>