---
title: "Third day of total Knowledge"
date: 2014-04-30T02:06:05.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=6f4da229dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619a7"
---
<p>I'm exhausted already.... 2 days of Precon training done and half of the first day as well. </p><p>It's a great event already and I found some valuable stuff already (knowledge management), that i'm definitly going to see if I can fit this into our installation.</p><p>There are several more Labs ahead and I'm not mad that there is nothing big going on tonight.</p><p>Maybe I can get to something of The City (as Frank mentioned in the keynote the people here refer to San Francisco).</p><p>Currently there's some Service Catalog stuff going on. It's very interesting to get detailed knowledge about this and seeing it on Eureka is even better. I can't wait for the general availability of this or get our sandbox entitled for it. </p><p>I'm really looking forward to the changes that are supposed to be in Project Management in this release since this might be the game changer for our current project portfolio release project and I'm glad, I booked the PPM lab tomorrow.</p><p></p><p>Fuji is supposed to have some rewritten financial management. I'm not entirely sure if this is a good thing. I'm sure, we will not be able to wait for that release before we migrate old processes to this. I just hope, we can go with a slow approach and not spend to much into the adjustment of the old stuff before the new version comes... appr. next year somewhen...</p><p></p><p>I'm all excited again and seeing the BMC guys outside (picture will follow) even makes my day brighter (nothing personal).....</p>