---
title: "Everything changes but remains the same in Service Management"
date: 2014-04-29T21:22:07.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=06ade2a9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961995"
---
<p><span style="font-family: Arial;">In Service Management - a reactive world of constant change - what has remained the same forever?</span></p><p> </p><p> <span style="font-family: Arial;">Yesterday I went to the NetworkingNOW session at #Know14 to meet ServiceNow customers and talk about custom application development.</span></p><p> </p><p> <span style="font-family: Arial;">As always I was surprised and grateful for some interesting, thought provoking conversations.</span></p><p> </p><p> <span style="font-family: Arial;">We often talk about customers "taking the platform and extending it". I think that phrase has multiple meanings. Last night I spoke to customers that see ServiceNow as a platform of technical capabilities - database abstraction, persistence, APIs. I spoke to a customer that wrote a migration from a legacy documentation platform into ServiceNow Knowledge Management in a week. Definitely a user of the platform.</span></p><p> </p><p> <span style="font-family: Arial;">But there is a second meaning that I discovered. Customers are using our Service Management tools as a level of base competency for IT - defining, measuring, stabilising and improving IT services. And they are using that base of skill and competence in Service Management as a platform for extending the service model into other parts of the business.</span></p><p> </p><p> <span style="font-family: Arial;">ServiceNow is giving organisations a reference point for what good Service Management looks like, regardless of the Service Domain. </span></p><p> </p><p> <span style="font-family: Arial;">I found that customers are still excited about the IT Service Domain - I talked a lot about Release Management last night - but they are just as excited about extending the model across the enterprise.</span></p><p> </p><p> <span style="font-family: Arial;">Human Resources was a popular example, and personally relevant as my ServiceNow application development team have spent the last 6 months or so building that as a addition to the ServiceNow Automation Suite.</span></p><p> </p><p> <span style="font-family: Arial;">So - back to the original question. What has remained the same in Service Management? </span></p><p> </p><p> <span style="font-family: Arial;">The desire of the end user for a seamless service experience. The tooling and competency of organisations has changed at a frantic pace. But customers always have and will continue to expect a great experience.</span></p><p> </p><p> <span style="font-family: Arial;">Its the job of the Service Management teams in our customer organisations (note: I didn't say IT Service Management - our customers are already removing that distinction)… it's their job to remove the friction for the user in requesting and receiving service across the enterprise.</span></p><p> </p><p> <span style="font-family: Arial;">Having a common toolset and a common Service Catalog is making that possible today.</span></p>