---
title: "Government Organization Consolidates IT Systems Introduces Service Management"
date: 2014-06-12T21:57:30.000Z
authors: ["sarah.manning"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=77fde62ddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96198c"
---
<p>The common perception is that state government could never be a poster child for efficiency and innovation — but one state's IT organization will cause you to re-think that stereotype.</p><p></p><p>The starting point? Siloed legacy IT support systems, a common malady to enterprises and government organizations. The islands of separate tools and systems prevented IT visibility of its own service infrastructure and process. Collaboration and communication between different agency teams was difficult, with each having a different tool and information stored separately.</p><p></p><p>The state's CIO took on an initiative to transform technology management and services delivery for about 55,000 employees across its government agencies — including the consolidation of all agency IT departments under a single service management platform and improving access to services for agency employees.   A non-trivial undertaking that could yield significant results.</p><p></p><p>To help achieve the initiative, ServiceNow was chosen as the single IT platform to drive new efficiency and effectiveness. And ServiceNow's Professional Services organization led the implementation. The starting point was twofold to streamline processes while bringing consistency and accuracy to IT infrastructure:</p><p></p><ol style="list-style-type: decimal;"><li>Tailor incident management across five disparate business areas including payroll human resources, accounting and benefits. The team immediately recognized benefits through improved visibility and reduced management between these business areas and the IT group. The businesses saw increased adoption by their users and enjoyed the transparency ServiceNow provided.</li><li>Configuration Management Database (CMDB) and Discovery allowed the team to migrate and consolidate its legacy asset and contract management systems under this single system of record.</li></ol><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-family: arial, helvetica, sans-serif;">Once the foundation was set and initial goals met, the IT team began executing on a plan to expand the use of ServiceNow throughout other state departments so that all IT service requests are funneled through the ServiceNow platform and to enhance capabilities including Asset Management. And to meet its overarching goals, the IT department has bigger plans to deploy ServiceNow across other state agencies and in support of non-IT business processes.</span></p><p></p><p>   <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-family: arial, helvetica, sans-serif;">"We're just at the beginning of what's possible," concluded the project lead. "We want to go beyond standardizing on ServiceNow for all IT support to standardizing on it for all service-related issues regardless of department. That's the best way to fulfill the CIO's vision."</span></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-family: arial, helvetica, sans-serif;"><br/></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-family: arial, helvetica, sans-serif;">Click below to read the full case study.<br/></span></p>