---
title: "Neebula  ServiceNow  a Sharper Focus for Enterprise Service Management"
date: 2014-07-09T23:26:03.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=fbada6a9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96193c"
---
<p><span style="font-size: 14pt; font-family: calibri,verdana,arial,sans-serif;">You know what's really cool about cats' eyes? Their motion-detection abilities.</span></p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><span style="font-family: calibri,verdana,arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Basically, when cats look out over an area — the African veldt, your kitchen floor — what they see that's not moving is relatively blurry, while anything that moves is in sharp relief. Why? Because that which moves could be either predator or prey, two of a cat's top concerns. So their eyes work with their brains to sharpen their focus on what's most important.</span></p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><span style="font-family: calibri,verdana,arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;"><a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://www.servicenow.com/company/media/press-room/servicenow-acquires-neebula.html" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">ServiceNow's just-announced acquisition of Neebula</a> will help IT leaders and their teams to do the same thing regarding discovery of IT resources and management of the services those resources empower. Neebula's flagship offering, ServiceWatch, associates discovered IT resources with specific services, a perfect complement to ServiceNow's IT Operations Management offerings, including Event Management, Orchestration and of course, Discovery. Here's how Neebula itself describes what ServiceWatch does.</span></p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><span style="font-family: calibri,verdana,arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">"Neebula's ServiceWatch has a unique, top-down approach to service availability management that is proven in both large and small IT organizations around the globe. Instead of synthesizing service models from huge amounts of infrastructure data, ServiceWatch starts with the user-accessed entry point to the business service. It then drills down surgically through the applications and associated IT infrastructure, automatically mapping and monitoring only those things that are relevant to that service. As a result, it maps services in minutes, and provides accurate, up-to-date application and service performance information, even in rapidly changing IT environments."</span></p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><span style="font-family: calibri,verdana,arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Neebula first announced integration with the ServiceNow CMDB in 2012. With the acquisition by ServiceNow, that integration is likely to broaden and deepen fairly quickly (as did integration of the predictive performance analytics enhancements ServiceNow obtained when it <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://www.servicenow.com/company/media/press-room/servicenow-acquires-mirror42.html" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">acquired Mirror42</a> in 2013). This is great news for any IT team seeking to improve and extend its abilities to deliver and manage enterprise services more effectively, within and beyond IT. Which is or should be <a title="" _jive_internal="true" data-containerid="2798" data-containertype="37" data-objectid="3069" data-objecttype="38" href="/community/learn/knowledge-user-conference/blog/2014/04/30/it-and-enterprise-transformation-101-why-enterprise-service-management-matters">every IT team on the planet</a>.</span></p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><span style="font-family: calibri,verdana,arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">   If you're not already familiar with Neebula and ServiceWatch, check them out at the <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://www.neebula.com/" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Neebula Web site</a>, or via a quick search on YouTube or on Vimeo. Then start sharpening your own focus on the IT infrastructure elements that matter most to service delivery and management at your enterprise.</span></p>