---
title: "SelfAssess Your Processes Capability"
date: 2014-08-27T22:59:58.000Z
authors: ["JohnJasinski"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=8fbdeaa9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619d2"
---
<p>How capable are your ITSM processes?     Do they meet the needs of the business?   ISACA has released a Self-Assessment Guide: Using COBIT 5.   The publication and tool kit are free to ISACA members.   Ask your audit team to share.   The tool kit.xls contains self-assessment templates for 37 processes including all ITSM (ITIL) processes.   Tell all your process people and managers.   The price is right.</p><p>The COBIT self-assessment is a simplified approach to performing an assessment that is not evidence-based, does not require an independent or certified assessor and can be done by a process owner or manager, or enterprise management, as a precursor to a more formal assessment. A self-assessment can identify process gaps that require improvements in advance of a formal assessment; it can be done for a relatively small investment and assists enterprise management in setting target capability levels.   The approach is consistent with using ISO15504 with a COBIT 5 process reference model to determine process capability. ISACA is also making available full audit / assessment word.doc templates for all management and governance processes. </p><p>A self-assessment can provide great input for your ITSM Continual Service Improvement plan.   With proper licensing you can load the self-assessment content into ServiceNow creating regular tasks for your process owners; survey and reports / gauges for use on a Process Capability Homepage.   Show off all your good work and improvement progress.   </p>