---
title: "Presentations from NowForum UK  Plenary BreakOut and Technical Sessions"
date: 2014-10-27T20:27:27.000Z
authors: ["brea.quinn"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=fd6eeeaddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619ab"
---
<p>Were you one of the 1000 attendees who joined us at NowForum in London and interested in reviewing the presentation content?   Were you unable to make it to the event and curious to see what our customers had to share? Attached you can find PDF versions of the plenary, break-out and technical sessions available for download. The associated abstracts for each of the presentations are listed below.</p><p></p><p><span style="color: #ff0000; font-size: 12pt;"><strong>Plenary Presentations:</strong></span></p><p></p><h3>Enterprise Service Management (ESM) - Taking the IT out of ITSM</h3><h3><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Betfair, Joanna Blackwell, Head of Global Enterprise Service Management</span></h3><p class="presentation" style="margin-bottom: 25px;"><span>ITSM is a set of best practices that has long helped IT departments manage their own services and improve processes. As companies evolve, other departments are looking to IT for input as to how they too can better manage services and processes, increasing automation and improving efficiency much the same way IT departments have done in the past. Enter Enterprise Service Management (ESM). ESM is able to bring cross-enterprise processes onto one main platform, providing a single place to consume and measure services across the entire business. Departments can be much more effective and efficient using these processes and platform, enabling them to offer a more professional service and better manage, measure and improve those services. This makes it easier to manage resources and bring more business value. During this presentation, Betfair will discuss the successful ESM drivers within their organization and show you how they were able to partner with a variety of lines of business to turn liabilities into assets. </span></p><h3><span style="color: #575757;">Transparency: Transforming the IT - Business Relationship</span></h3><h3><span style="font-size: 10pt; color: #575757;">KPMG &amp; Zurich Insurance Group, Adam Woodhouse, Director - CIO Advisory &amp; Head of Service Integration &amp; Roy Dobson, Head of Service Integration<br/></span></h3><p class="presentation"><span style="color: #575757;">IT is increasingly becoming a more critical asset for organisations in all sectors, in terms of increasing efficiency, driving better customer experience, continually seeking out new revenue streams and most importantly new ways of working with our customers and prospects. Zurich Insurance Group is on a transformation journey, as we improve the way we use IT services in client delivery. We deliver an end to end IT service through a collection of in-house capability, external suppliers and cloud solutions to best serve our internal and external customers. As an international company with multiple lines of business, ensuring that we meet the needs of our customers has some extra dimensions that we must address. In our presentation we will look at how we increase transparency into IT, how we have set out on our journey and what we have learned so far.</span></p><p class="presentation"><span><br/></span></p><h3>The Enterprise Exploitation of ServiceNow</h3><h3><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Accenture Federal Services, P. Micheal Lutz, ServiceNow Capability Lead</span></h3><p>When Accenture Federal Services (AFS) found itself facing the need to migrate and upgrade multiple legacy ITSM tools in a relatively short period of time, they conducted a business and functional case assessment of alternatives which led them to choose ServiceNow.   Once deployed, AFS quickly identified opportunities to use ServiceNow to meet a myriad of other business needs: Resource Management; Employee Learning Management; automated Cloud Provisioning; Case Management; and Business Automation. Along with this exploitation came the sudden increased demand for ServiceNow-based solutions across the enterprise.   Learn how AFS exploited the power of the ServiceNow platform to transform the way it works internally, serves its clients, and how it has harnessed the power and demand for ServiceNow across its enterprise.</p><p></p><p><span style="; color: #ff0000; font-size: 12pt;"><strong>Break-Out Presentations:</strong></span></p><p></p><h3>Complaint Management into Customer Success</h3><h3><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Spirit Pub Company, Simon Clarke, Service Delivery Manager</span></h3><p class="presentation" style="margin-bottom: 25px;"><span>Spirit Pub Company, which manages 750 pubs around the UK, expanded its use of ServiceNow beyond IT to fulfill its goal of becoming the number one hospitality brand in the UK. See firsthand how Spirit Pub Company worked with ServiceNow partner TeamUltra to design apps including: an incident management system for guest feedback, a Pub Query System (PQS) and employee relations. Learn about the app creation process, the impact this has had on the company, and future plans and ideas.</span></p><h3>Transforming the NHS B&amp;T HR function supported by ServiceNow</h3><h3><span style="font-size: 10pt;">NHS Blood and Transplant, Shane White, HR Business Partner - ODT and HR Strategy Development</span></h3><p class="presentation" style="margin-bottom: 25px;"><span>In this presentation, you will hear how the NHSBT HR team worked with Fruition Partners and ServiceNow to transform its HR function by increasing automation and improving efficiencies. Learn how changes in people, process and technologies helped reduce costs and increase end-user satisfaction. Furthermore, NHSBT will demonstrate how it customized ServiceNow's HR solution to perfectly meet the organization's needs.</span></p><h3>Merging Greater Manchester in 10 months with ServiceNow</h3><h3><span style="font-size: 10pt;">NHS North West Commissioning Support Unit, Tony Williams, Head of Service Management </span></h3><p class="presentation" style="margin-bottom: 25px;"><span>A true transformation journey, how NHS North West (formally NHS Greater Manchester) Commissioning Support Unit successfully consolidate ten multi-million pound support businesses to a single service provider with 12,000 customers, across 550 NHS businesses, supporting healthcare services to a population of 2.7 million people. Whilst doing so, generate significant efficiency savings in reducing Service Desk headcount by 55%, raise First Time Fix to over 70% and improve customer satisfaction, by extending the value of ServiceNow to help transform the business.</span></p><h3>Kick off to global go-live in 17 weeks</h3><h3><span style="font-size: 10pt;">AstraZeneca, Chris Corbishley, IT Tools &amp; Event Management Lead &amp; Russ Cox, Project Manager<br/></span></h3><p class="presentation" style="margin-bottom: 25px;"><span>Come along with us on a journey where you will hear how the team at AstraZeneca and MedImmune came together to deliver a consolidated ITSM solution and processes. Learn how we pushed the boundaries of what people said was possible and delivered more than we set out to, including extending the functionality to the global finance team, all achieved 17 weeks (yes weeks!).</span></p><h3>Designing a self-service portal for love and money</h3><h3><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Wärtsilä Corporation</span>, <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Juha M. Kujala, Architect, ITSM</span></span></h3><p><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Phone and email have long been the contact methods of 19,000 users at Wärtsilä when seeking support from Helpdesk - and it's difficult to beat these methods in simplicity. Wärtsilä engaged end users in a co-creation exercise to understand what is required from a self-service portal to provide superior user experience, while driving towards self-service with a solid business case. Through user profiling and prototyping, Wärtsilä have designed a portal that proactively proposes solutions to incidents before they are even recorded, enables collaborative support models and drives down the total cost of IT support — all running on ServiceNow, of course.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><br/></span></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;"><br/></span></p><p class="job_title"><span style="color: #ff0000; font-size: 12pt;"><strong>Technical Presentations:</strong></span></p><p class="job_title"></p><h3>Untangling the access web at Standard Life</h3><h3><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Standard Life, Katie Irvine, Senior Operations Analyst </span></h3><p class="presentation" style="margin-bottom: 25px;"><span>Like so many large organisations, Standard Life's logical access landscape has evolved into a complex tangle of entitlements. Working out how to request software and logical access had become confusing, with a variety of legacy request systems. In parallel with our Identity and Access Management project, we are leveraging ServiceNow's Service Catalogue and web services features to build a fully automated access request system. Staff can now easily identify and request the access they need, and are seeing a step change in delivery times. Find out how we've done this, and how we plan to take this to the next level with ServiceNow's flexible toolset.</span></p><h3>Model the modern way with ServiceWatch</h3><h3><span style="font-size: 10pt;">ServiceNow, James Neal &amp; Adam Shaw, Solution Consultants</span></h3><p class="presentation" style="margin-bottom: 25px;"><span>Take a new top-down automated approach to modeling your Business Services and move away from traditional manual mapping. This session will focus on how you can take a top-down approach to business service modelling, how patterns work in ServiceWatch, how the Business Map works and then finish with a live demonstration.</span></p><h3>How Performance Analytics supports fact based decision making</h3><h3><span style="font-size: 10pt;">ServiceNow, Paul van Nistelrooij, Senior Manager Performance Analytics<br/></span></h3><h3><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><br/></span></h3><h3>Extending your service-oriented enterprise with custom ServiceNow applications</h3><h3><span style="font-size: 10pt;">ServiceNow, Simon Morris, Director Applications Development<br/></span></h3>