---
title: "PMO Best Practices  How Fruition Partners extends ServiceNows PPM application to improve information access with My Service Portal"
date: 2014-10-22T03:22:53.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=463daae5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619f7"
---
<p>ServiceNow provides many options to display information in an easy to access format.   As my colleague, <a title="" _jive_internal="true" data-containerid="2927" data-containertype="37" data-objectid="3486" data-objecttype="38" href="/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=f16c2ea1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619b5">Sal Costa, mentioned in his blog</a> in September, Fruition Partners has taken this a step further by developing the <em>My Service Portal</em> to provide our clients easy access to their project metrics and interact with the Fruition Partners team. Using the ServiceNow platform, the technology used for <em>My Service Portal </em>can be applied to displaying any type of project data or other ServiceNow information you may want to present. </p><p></p><p>ServiceNow's Project and Portfolio Management (PPM) application is consolidated in an intuitive, easy to use tool.     <em>My Service Portal</em> strengthens the collaboration across the project team by providing the data in an open and transparent way since everyone is viewing the same project data at the same time.   This project data is available real time.   Team members and upper management no longer have to wait for status reports or other information from the project manager.   The project manager can access it when they need to support reporting to their own team and management. </p><p></p><p>Project team members no longer have to click between different PPM forms and related lists to locate the project data and information.   Key metrics such as cost, schedule, and effort and variances for each are calculated to provide a quick health check including red, green, and yellow stoplight indicators.   Project team members can view more detailed information about the project, including comparisons of planned versus actual financial information.   Financial information is available to help quickly reconcile budget data to ensure invoices match what has been paid and what is due based on the project actuals. </p><p></p><p>Project issues can be logged and tracked, which ensures they are visible and resolved in a timely manner. Issues can easily be sorted by Creator, Date, Priority, Status, and Category.   This prevents issues from being lost in email by passing around different versions of spreadsheets.   Project status meetings can easily refer to the portal for up to date issue status and project metrics.   The ultimate end benefit is that project and program managers can spend more time proactively helping clients solve their business challenges rather than compiling status information or reconciling invoices.</p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Calibri',sans-serif;">Using the same approach as the PPM data, ServiceNow can be configured to display, in an easy to use, intuitive portal, any data such as Incidents, Requests, and Changes, especially data that can be summarized or requires some calculations for metrics.       As we all know, information is power, and now you, like our clients, can have the power at your fingertips with portals like Fruition Partners <em>My Service Portal.</em></span></p>