---
title: "File Builder FTP X Video Tutorial"
date: 2014-11-05T20:57:57.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=168da669dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961988"
---
<p>The 3.x version of this tool that I just posted to <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="https://share.servicenow.com/app.do#/detailV2/b3d06580875475002e7fb92489434d48" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">ShareNow</a> has a number of new features that have been asked for by the community.   I have also created a video tutorial on this version found at the following locations:</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><a title="" _jive_internal="true" data-containerid="2009" data-containertype="14" data-objectid="1416" data-objecttype="1100" href="/community?id=community_video&sys_id=93470535db989fc09c9ffb651f9619b0">File Builder FTP 3.X Version Video Tutorial</a></p><p><a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://youtu.be/xPKRyTjzRyo" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">File Builder FTP 3.x Video Tutorial - YouTube</a></p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p>Version 3.X has a number of new features:</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p>1. There is an option to choose Tab as a delimiter on the File Definition now.</p><p>2. There was code put in to terminate SFTP connection after it is used.</p><p>3. Added some more descriptive tool tips on the MID Server path and FTP file path to be more clear.</p><p>4. Fixed a couple of issues with XML creation:</p><p>       a. Field names that start with a number get an "x" put in front of it when the XML node is created.</p><p>       b. File names that start with a number get an "x" put in front of it when the XML node is created.</p><p>       c. File names with spaces in it will have spaces replaced with a "_" when the XML node is created.</p><p>5. Created two new UI Actions on the File Definitions form:</p><p>       a. "Auto-Populate All Fields (Labels)" — This will read the source table's fields from ServiceNow and create fields in your File Definition using the ServiceNow Field Labels as the Field Name.</p><p>               i. If any of the field names have a "/" in it, it will be replaced by a "-".</p><p>               ii. If any of the field names have a space in it, it will be replaced by a "_".</p><p>       b. "Auto-Populate All Fields (DB Field Name)" — This will read the source table's fields from ServiceNow and create fields in your File Definition using the ServiceNow Field Names as the Field Name.</p><p>6. All the fields that you create have another option named "Value Type". There are three possible values: "Value", "DisplayValue", and "Hardcoded".</p><p>       a. Value — Raw value. So if it is a reference field, it will get the sys_id.</p><p>       b. DisplayValue — Will get the display value of the field.</p><p>       c. Hardcoded — If you want just a raw text string in that field on each record, you set this, then put your text in the Source Field value.</p><p>7. Updated the Example Scheduled Job to have better comments with instructions how to call it from a script.</p>