---
title: "Why Human Resource Service Management HRSM is important"
date: 2014-11-10T23:46:26.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=3c4daee5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961999"
---
<p><strong style="color: #000000;"><em>Perspective: Why HR Service Management is important </em></strong></p><p><span style="color: #000000;"><strong><em><br/></em></strong></span></p><p><span style="color: #000000;">When someone from IT Application Management or DevOps (Development Operations) is asked to help Human Resources align technology to their Service Management offering, the first IT reaction is <em>'why can't HR just stay with managing solutions via email and spreadsheets…it got them this far…'</em></span></p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><span style="color: #000000;">Legitimate question, and it is important for the non-HR initiated (i.e. Information Technology) to understand the benefits of Human Resource Service Management (HRSM).</span></p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><span style="color: #000000;">Human Resource has a responsibility to ensure employees have a good understanding of the organization's culture, polices, and benefits. Additionally, the Human Resource Department also has a major responsibility to ensure strong employee relationships by addressing issues such as mundane as a simple complaint to more significant issues such as harassment or work place intimation. In today's culture it is vital for Human Resource Department to have the ability to document key information and to provide accurate knowledge efficiently.</span></p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><span style="color: #000000;">While it is up to the HR Department leadership and personnel to organize themselves to properly engage the business, a solid HR Service Management system provides the following advantages:</span></p><ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li><span style="color: #000000;">Opportunity for <strong>Direct Communication </strong>to Employee (Outside of the Corporate Hierarchy)</span></li><li><span style="color: #000000;"><strong>Data Consolidation and Trend Identification</strong> - On the Technology front, a HR Service Management deployment provides the ability to associate Requests and complaints (i.e. an internal investigation) to employees, locations, and team). HR can review historical information and determine if issues that arise are based on a person, a manager, or a location. </span></li><li><span style="color: #000000;">On the human front,<strong> Employee retention </strong>is influenced by HR Service Management experience...because employees do ask "does my company really care for my well-being?" A HRSM with a easy User Experience and good information (i.e. articles) will greatly help an employee's perception of the organization. </span></li><li><span style="color: #000000;"><strong>Productivity (Employee) </strong>— Efficient HR Service Management practices means less time waiting/worrying/complaining about HR responses. It is Human Nature for people to express negative opinions (especially at work), and with that being said, you don't want employees (friends, teammates, and coworkers) burning time complaining to each about poor HR Service.</span></li><li><span style="color: #000000;"><strong>Productivity (HR) </strong>— Efficient HR Service Management system represents more useful information and experiences to the employees. The HR Department benefits with more time to focus upon building/managing knowledge and additional time to manage complex topics.</span></li></ul><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><span style="color: #000000;">Final thought on this topic, if a company loses sight of properly engaging with their employees (i.e. the Human Resource Department is not in tune with employee), then the organization runs the risk of damaging their Brand, Profit, and Morale.</span></p>