---
title: " Tips for Creating Your Own Screen Capture Videos"
date: 2014-11-13T04:52:41.000Z
authors: ["katharine.campbell"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=b26e62eddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961945"
---
<p class="p1">Over the past few months, I've shared a variety of informational videos, which I hope have helped you make the most of the ServiceNow platform. But perhaps you would like to share some of your ServiceNow expertise with the community or even internally with your own team members. Video is a great tool for this.   In this blog post, I am going to provide five simple tips for creating your own screen capture videos. Hopefully, these tips will help you share your knowledge! </p><p class="p2" style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p class="p1"><strong>1. Set your screen to the highest resolution possible.</strong> </p><p class="p1">When it comes to the ServiceNow platform, detail is important. Viewers should be able to see any icons or fields relevant to your demo. Setting your screen resolution to the highest setting will ensure that detail is preserved even after you've edited and exported your demo. </p><p class="p2" style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p class="p1"><strong>2. Stay within a foot of your microphone. </strong></p><p class="p1">Noise distortion can distract from your presentation. An easy way to avoid it is to stay within a foot of your microphone. Additionally, it is important to record in a quiet location and avoid empty rooms that may produce an echo.</p><p class="p1" style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p class="p2" style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p class="p1"><strong>3. Keep it short (five minutes or less).</strong></p><p class="p1">Short videos are more likely to hold the attention of your audience. Try to demonstrate only one task per video and be as concise as possible. There are a few exceptions to this rule. Webinars can run up to an hour because viewers expect more detailed, in depth information. Also, sometimes complex processes simply can't be demonstrated in under five minutes. In these cases, it is all right for the video to be a little bit longer. </p><p class="p2" style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p class="p1"><strong>4. Make your presentation full screen.</strong></p><p class="p1">The viewer's full attention should be on your presentation. If your desktop or applications are visible, they will distract from your demo. It is also important to make sure unnecessary applications are closed so that they don't send you notifications while you are recording. </p><p class="p2" style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p class="p1"><strong>5. Place your webcam at eye level.</strong></p><p class="p1">A webcam is a great way to put a face on your presentation. If you decide to use a webcam, it is important to place it at eye level. Most conversations take place at eye level, so this will feel natural to your audience. </p><p class="p2" style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p class="p1">I hope you find this information helpful and encourage you to share your ServiceNow knowledge through video! </p><p class="p2" style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p class="p1">If you have any additional tips you would like to share, or questions about conveying knowledge through video, please post them in the comments below! </p>