---
title: "Scoped Applications  Introduction"
date: 2014-11-26T01:17:22.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=e8bde6a9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961993"
---
<table border="1" cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0"><tbody><tr><td style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; margin: 8px;" valign="top"><p><strong>Contents</strong></p><ul><li>1 Overview</li><li>2 Benefits of Scoped Applications</li><li>3 Developing Applications with Scope Protection<ul><li>3.1 Restrictions on Scoped Applications</li></ul></li><li><span style="font-size: 10pt;">4 Converting Global Applications to Scoped Applications</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 10pt;">5 Defining Scope Protection for Tables</span><ul><li><span style="font-size: 10pt;">5.1 Naming Tables and Columns In Scoped Applications</span></li></ul></li><li><span style="font-size: 10pt;">6 Scripting in Scoped Applications</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 10pt;">7 DOC NOTES</span></li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table><p><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;"><strong>1 Overview</strong></span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;">All applications have an application scope.</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;">Scoped applications are available starting with the Fuji release.</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;"><strong>2 Benefits of Scoped Applications</strong></span></p><ul><li>Application Independence: Scoped applications provide strong application boundaries and runtime isolation, so that installing a new application does not break existing applications.</li><li>Allows you to create independent applications that can be distributed through an application depository.</li><li>Need some content about why to use them for in-house custom applications</li><li>Why to share on App Store</li></ul><p><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;"> </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;"><strong>3 Developing Applications with Scope Protection</strong></span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;">Every application is assigned to either a unique scope or to the global scope (starting with the Fuji release). Assigning applications to a unique scope provides several protections to ensure consistent functionality and limit the impact of applications on one another. Also, these scoped applications can be shared on the App Store. Global applications do not have the same restrictions to limit their impact on one another and cannot be shared on the App Store.</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;">When you are <a href="https://wiki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Creating_a_Custom_Application#Creating_Applications" title="Creating a Custom Application">creating a new application</a>, define the application scope in the <strong>Scope</strong> field.</span></p><ul><li><strong>Unique scope (scoped application):</strong> The field value is populated automatically based on the prefix for your organization and the application name. You cannot modify the prefix; however, you can modify the rest of the scope name. The scope value can be up to 30 characters long and can contain only lowercase, alphanumeric ASCII characters and underscores (_). The system ensures that the scope value is unique across all applications, whether they are custom to your organization, provided by ServiceNow, or provided by another vendor.</li><li><strong>Global scope:</strong> Clear the field value to create an the application in the global scope.</li></ul><table border="1" cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0" style="font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;"><tbody><tr><td style="color: #000000; font-size: 10pt; margin: 8px;"> </td><td style="color: #000000; font-size: 10pt; margin: 8px;" valign="top"><strong>Note:</strong> <em>The <strong>Scope</strong> field is available only when creating a new application. To convert an existing application to a scoped application, see Converting Global Applications to Scoped Applications.</em></td></tr></tbody></table><p><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;"> </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;"><strong>3.1 Restrictions on Scoped Applications</strong></span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;">When developing on the ServiceNow platform, users have several restrictions that limit the impact of scoped applications on one another.</span></p><ul><li>You can modify only configuration records with the same scope as the application you have selected in the application picker. For example, suppose you have two applications, A and B. You have application A selected in the application picker and you open a business rule that is part of application B.</li></ul><p><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;">If A and B each have a <strong>unique scope</strong>, the record is locked to changes and a message appears on the form indicating that the record is in a different scope than the application you have selected. You must select application B in the application picker before you can modify the record.<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> </span></span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;">If A and B are both in the <strong>global scope</strong>, you can modify any information that you have access rights to edit, and the business rule remains in application B.</span></p><ul><li>You cannot move tables and fields into or out of a scoped application.</li></ul><p><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;">You can move <a href="https://wiki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Creating_a_Custom_Table" title="Creating a Custom Table">custom tables and fields</a> between global applications.</span></p><ul><li>You must specify the scope to write a script that calls a method in another scope.</li><li>You can add fields on tables that are in the same scope as the field and on other tables that allow applications in another scope to add fields on them.</li><li>You can <a href="https://wiki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Dictionary_Overrides#Defining_Dictionary_Overrides" title="Dictionary Overrides">add dictionary overrides</a> on tables that are in the same scope as the dictionary override.</li><li>You can <a href="https://wiki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Business_Rules#Business_Rules_in_Scoped_Applications" title="Business Rules">add business rules</a> on tables and database views that are in the same scope as the business rule and on other tables that allow business rules in another scope to run on them.<span style="text-decoration: line-through;"> For tables that are in a different scope than the business rule record, the types of rules are limited. </span>(Support added for scoped Business Rules 11/24/2014)</li><li>You can <a href="https://wiki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=UI_Actions#Editing_UI_Actions" title="UI Actions">add UI actions</a> on tables and database views that are in the same scope as the UI action and on other tables that allow UI actions in another scope to run on them.</li><li>You can <a href="https://wiki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Using_Access_Control_Rules#ACL_Rules_in_Scoped_Applications" title="Using Access Control Rules">add ACL rules</a> for objects that are in the same scope as the ACL rule and for other tables that have at least one field in the same scope as the ACL rule. For tables that are in a different scope than the ACL rule record, the types of rules are limited.</li><li>You can <a href="https://wiki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Data_Policy#Creating_a_Data_Policy" title="Data Policy">create data policies</a> for tables and database views that are in the same scope as the data policy and for other tables that have at least one field in the same scope as the data policy. For tables that are in a different scope than the data policy record, you can create data policy rules only for fields in the same scope as the data policy and you cannot make a field mandatory.</li><li>You can <a href="https://wiki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Creating_a_UI_Policy#Creating_a_UI_Policy" title="Creating a UI Policy">create UI policies</a> for tables and database views that are in the same scope as the UI policy and for other tables that have at least one field in the same scope as the UI policy. For tables that are in a different scope than the UI policy record, you can create UI policy actions only for fields in the same scope as the UI policy and you cannot make a field mandatory or define scripts.</li><li>You can <a href="https://wiki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Client_Scripts#Client_Script_Form" title="Client Scripts">add client scripts</a> on tables and database views that are in the same scope as the client script.</li><li>You cannot <a href="https://wiki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=UI_Scripts#Global_UI_Scripts" title="UI Scripts">create a global UI script</a> in a scoped application.</li><li>Script includes</li></ul><p><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;"> </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;"><strong>4 Converting Global Applications to Scoped Applications </strong></span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;">make an old app scoped, need to create a new one and move code to it.</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;">Code changes: If you convert, will need to qualify the global functions as global (except native Glide method calls) and add own scope to own function calls (Best practice).</span></p><p><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;"><strong>5 Defining Scope Protection for Tables </strong></span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;">The Apps Access controls on the Table form determine whether functionality from <strong>an application in another scope</strong> can access information, add fields, or add business logic that affects the table. You can define the scope protection for a table with these fields.</span></p><table border="1" cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0" style="font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;"><tbody><tr><td nowrap="nowrap" style="color: #000000; font-size: 10pt; margin: 8px;" valign="top"><strong>Field</strong></td><td nowrap="nowrap" style="color: #000000; font-size: 10pt; margin: 8px;" valign="top"><strong>Description</strong></td></tr><tr><td style="color: #000000; font-size: 10pt; margin: 8px;" valign="top">Allow read access from other app scopes</td><td style="color: #000000; font-size: 10pt; margin: 8px;" valign="top">Select the check box to allow objects in another application scope to access data stored on this table. For example, a script in another application can query data on this table. For tables in the global scope, the check box is selected by default.<br/>Clear the check box to prevent objects in another application scope from accessing data stored on this table. When this check box is cleared, users who are creating or modifying objects in another application scope cannot select this table from any lists of tables. For example, this table does not appear as an option in the <strong>Tables</strong> list on business rules in another scope. For tables in a unique application scope, the check box is cleared by default.</td></tr><tr><td style="color: #000000; font-size: 10pt; margin: 8px;" valign="top">Allow write access from other app scopes</td><td style="color: #000000; font-size: 10pt; margin: 8px;" valign="top">Select the check box to allow objects in another application scope to modify data stored on this table. For example, a script in another application can modify a field value on this table. This option is available only when the <strong>Allow read access from other app scopes</strong> check box is selected.<br/>Clear the check box to prevent objects in another application scope from modifying data stored on this table.</td></tr><tr><td style="color: #000000; font-size: 10pt; margin: 8px;" valign="top">Allow create access from other app scopes</td><td style="color: #000000; font-size: 10pt; margin: 8px;" valign="top">Select the check box to to allow objects in another application scope to create records on this table. For example, a script in another application can insert a new record in this table. This option is available only when the <strong>Allow read access from other app scopes</strong> check box is selected.<br/>Clear the check box to prevent objects in another application scope from creating records on this table.</td></tr><tr><td style="color: #000000; font-size: 10pt; margin: 8px;" valign="top">Allow delete access from other app scopes</td><td style="color: #000000; font-size: 10pt; margin: 8px;" valign="top">Select the check box to to allow objects in another application scope to delete records from this table. For example, a script in another application can remove a record from this table. This option is available only when the <strong>Allow read access from other app scopes</strong> check box is selected.<br/>Clear the check box to prevent objects in another application scope from deleting records from this table.</td></tr><tr><td style="color: #000000; font-size: 10pt; margin: 8px;" valign="top">Allow rules from other app scopes</td><td style="color: #000000; font-size: 10pt; margin: 8px;" valign="top">Select the check box to allow <strong>business rules</strong> in another application scope to run on the table and to allow users to <a href="https://wiki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Business_Rules" title="Business Rules">create business rules on this table</a> while developing an application in another scope. This option is available only when the <strong>Allow read access from other app scopes</strong> check box is selected.<br/>Clear the check box to prevent business rules in another application scope from running on the table and to prevent developers from creating business rules on this table.</td></tr><tr><td style="color: #000000; font-size: 10pt; margin: 8px;" valign="top">Allow actions from other app scopes</td><td style="color: #000000; font-size: 10pt; margin: 8px;" valign="top">Select the check box to allow <strong>UI actions</strong> in another application scope to run on the table and to allow users to <a href="https://wiki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=UI_Actions" title="UI Actions">create UI actions on this table</a> while developing an application in another scope. This option is available only when the <strong>Allow read access from other app scopes</strong> check box is selected.<br/>Clear the check box to prevent UI actions in another application scope from running on the table and to prevent developers from creating UI actions on this table.</td></tr><tr><td style="color: #000000; font-size: 10pt; margin: 8px;" valign="top">Allow other app scopes to add new fields</td><td style="color: #000000; font-size: 10pt; margin: 8px;" valign="top">Select the check box to allow applications in another scope to create fields on this table. This option is available only when the <strong>Allow read access from other app scopes</strong> check box is selected.<br/>Clear the check box to prevent applications in another scope from adding fields on this table.</td></tr></tbody></table><p><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;"><strong>5.1 Naming Tables and Columns In Scoped Applications</strong></span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;">When you create a new table or field, the name is automatically prefixed to identify the scope of the table or field and you cannot modify the prefix. The prefix also protects against moving tables and fields into or out of scoped applications, since you cannot change the name of an existing table or field.</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;">The following examples demonstrate how tables and fields are prefixed to identify the scope. For these examples, assume these applications are under development on an instance:</span></p><ul><li><strong>Idea Management:</strong> a scoped application where the scope is <strong>x_abc_ideas</strong></li><li><strong>Marketing Event Management:</strong> a global application</li></ul><p><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;"><br/><strong>Example 1:</strong> Add the Idea table to Idea Management.</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;">The table name defaults to <strong>x_abc_ideas_idea</strong>. The table is in the unique scope of Idea Management so it is prefixed with the <strong>x_abc_ideas</strong> scope.</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;"><br/><strong>Example 2:</strong> Add the Marketing Event table to Marketing Event Management.</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;">The table name defaults to <strong>u_marketing_event</strong>. It is in the global scope so it is prefixed with <strong>u</strong>.</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;"> </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;"><strong>Example 3:</strong> Select Idea Management in the application picker and add the <strong>Theme</strong> field on the Idea table.</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;">The field name defaults to <strong>theme</strong>. It is in the same unique scope as the table so it does not have a prefix. To dot-walk to the field in a script, you would use <strong>x_abc_ideas_idea.theme</strong>.</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;"> </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;"><strong>Example 4:</strong> Select Idea Management in the application picker and add the <strong>Theme</strong> field to the Marketing Event table.</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;">The field name defaults to <strong>x_abc_ideas_theme</strong>. It is in a different scope from the table so it is prefixed with the <strong>x_abc_ideas</strong> scope. To dot-walk to the field in a script, you would use<strong>u_marketing_event.x_abc_ideas_theme</strong>.</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;"><strong> </strong></span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;"><strong>Example 5:</strong> Select Marketing Event Management in the application picker and add the <strong>Theme</strong> field to the Marketing Event table.</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;">The field name defaults to <strong>u_theme</strong>. It is in the global scope so it is prefixed with <strong>u</strong>. To dot-walk to the field in a script, you would use <strong>u_marketing_event.u_theme</strong>.</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;"> </span></p><table border="1" cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0" style="font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;" width="422"><tbody><tr><td style="color: #000000; font-size: 10pt; margin: 8px;"> </td><td style="color: #000000; font-size: 10pt; margin: 8px;" valign="top"><strong>Note:</strong> <em>When you are creating a table or field, you cannot modify the prefix but you can modify the rest of the name. For more information, see <a href="https://wiki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Creating_a_Custom_Table#Creating_Tables" title="Creating a Custom Table">Creating Tables</a> and <a href="https://wiki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=System_Dictionary#Modifying_Dictionary_Entries" title="System Dictionary">Modifying Dictionary Entries</a>.</em></td></tr></tbody></table><p><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;"> </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;"><strong>6 Scripting in Scoped Applications</strong></span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;">Scoped scripting allows you to customize your applications while limiting access and hiding the implementation details. For details on scripting, see <a href="https://wiki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Scripting_in_Scoped_Applications" title="Scripting in Scoped Applications">Scripting in Scoped Applications</a>.</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;"><strong>7 DOC NOTES</strong></span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;">Application Independence</span></p><ul><li>Strong application boundaries</li><li>Runtime isolation</li><li>Installing app A won't break app B</li></ul><p><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;"><br/>Without scoping, Current application suite is extensively logically cross linked</span></p><ul><li>Dependent on scheme elements in other applications</li><li>Dependent on business rule functionality in other applications</li><li>Dependent on global scope scripts/script includes in other application</li><li>Virtually impossible to install application A without risking some impact to application B</li><li>Virtually impossible to modify application A without risking impact to application B</li></ul><p><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, Verdana, Helvetica, sans-serif;"><br/>Scoping does:</span></p><ul><li>Extend (and enforce) the application model</li><li>Every application is a scope</li><li>Artifacts defined within that scope are fully available to other artifacts within the scope<ul><li>Tables</li><li>Forms and Lists follow</li><li>Business Rules</li><li>Script Includes</li><li>Java Classes (if any)</li></ul></li><li>Only artifacts explicitly *exported* are available to other applications</li><li>Communication between applications<ul><li>Events</li><li>CRUD operations on exported tables</li><li>Explicitly exported API points (Script Includes and/or Java)</li></ul></li></ul>