---
title: "Accelerating Market Penetration By Combining Technology and ServicesOriented Thinking"
date: 2014-12-12T05:57:05.000Z
authors: ["sarah.manning"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=3c0e6a2ddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961937"
---
<p class="ResponseBullet" style="margin-bottom: .0001pt;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">By <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/people/angela.burk">Angela Burk</a></span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><em>I had the chance to chat with Dave Walstad, VP of Business Development at Virteva, about the unique opportunities Managed Services Providers for service automation face when it comes to adopting the technology internally, driving operational efficiencies and keeping a sharp focus on a service-oriented approach.</em></span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><strong>Tell me about Virteva.</strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Virteva is an independent IT consulting and MSP firm serving enterprise and mid-sized businesses nationwide. We offer a full range of managed services and IT infrastructure consulting services, including everything from assessments and strategic planning to the design and implementation of IT business solutions.   What makes us unique is our onsite Operations Center serving customers 24X7, 365 days a year.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><strong>Previously, you offered a different ITSM solution as a managed service. You saw the need for IT Service Automation and switched to ServiceNow as your offering and for what you use to manage your own business. What was fueling the need to make a change in IT?</strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Two main issues were driving the need to adopt a new solution. First off our customers were talking about ServiceNow, and second our previous solution lacked the reporting capabilities and visibility we, as a management team, were looking for.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><strong>How do requirements like service automation and self-service factor into your strategy?</strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">I'm so glad you asked about these. We knew that service request management through a service catalog with self-service access were important. We knew, too, that we could automate workflows for so much of the business—not just IT, but in other service areas such as HR, sales, marketing and finance. So our vision was always bigger than just IT. We can automate business processes that are manual today, and we can provide a system to engage end-users through a consumerized portal. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">This centers on our belief that services and a services-oriented approach is what will help fuel our growth. This is our mind-set, and what we see our customers adopting as well. And it's manifesting itself in the growing requirements for consumerized interactions, automating manual processes and finding better ways for our clients (and ourselves) to make the work people do more efficient and scalable. Gone are the days of focusing just on ITSM.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><strong>How have customers and your internal users reacted to the switch to ServiceNow?</strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Market-place adoption has been very positive among our customers particularly because of the credibility ServiceNow brings and the strategy it serves. I can't emphasize this enough.   It's allowing us to have conversations with enterprises beyond our geographic focus areas and allowing us to demonstrate our association with an enterprise-class solution.   Since our go-live we've converted 55 clients representing thousands of end-users. </span></p><p><br/><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> As we onboard new customers they are asking for advanced capabilities such as service request management and service catalog; I'm thrilled to say we can deliver this today as part of our solution set.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Internally, we've had no resistance to the switch.   We have successfully positioned ServiceNow as our service automation platform and it's been easy to point our growth rate, market penetration and standing as successes.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><strong>You work closely with Fruition Partners, a ServiceNow Master Solutions Partner. How do you describe the value of the relationship?</strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">You know, I've described the partnership as being one that's very symbiotic. It's been through the combination of our vision, Fruition's expertise and the power of ServiceNow as our service automaton platform that we've seen the rapid acceleration in our own maturity and customer growth. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><strong>What's next for you and the team?</strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">We have a full roadmap of activities, including the launch of a new CMDB and introducing ServiceNow Asset Management as well as Project Portfolio Management--these capabilities are among the top we hear from our clients about.   I only wish we would have moved to ServiceNow sooner.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Links:</span></p><p>   <a href="http://fruitionpartners.com/case-study/2013/12/19/embracing-saas-a-msp-success-story"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fruition case study</span></a></p>