---
title: "Unified Employee Experience Innovation for the Enterprise of Tomorrow Today"
date: 2019-04-29T19:54:56.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=5dfdeee2db45bbc4a39a0b55ca9619a2"
---
<p>As Cask’s Vice President, I consider it an honor to meet with customers large and small, global and local, and in the public and private sectors on a weekly basis.</p>
<p>The one thing that impacts every single one of them is the fact that their employees are spending a ton of time switching back and forth between disparate tools just to get their jobs done. The amount of productivity this costs businesses is hard to fathom. In fact, I believe it’s one of the <a title="What&#39;s Next in Innovation" href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v&#61;Axv3MQYUv4w&amp;feature&#61;youtu.be" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow">true challenges of our generation</a>.</p>
<p>Think about it. We spend a minimum of eight hours a day, for five days out of every week, at work. In many cases, we’re spending more time at work than we do at home! If we had to put up with some of the convoluted processes at home that we do at work, it wouldn’t take long before we’d be looking for a better way to get things done.</p>
<p>While we have the freedom to make these kinds of decisions at home, the majority of workers, unfortunately, don’t. Their solution instead is often to find a different, more user-friendly workplace. And as I’m sure you’re aware, losing an employee is another major challenge whose cost is larger than we can totally understand.</p>
<p>We’re facing a costly, demoralizing issue—and it needs to be solved.</p>
<p><br />That’s why, at Cask, we’re excited that we’re able to empower our customers to <a title="Consumer Grade Employee Experience" href="https://www.casknx.com/human-resources/hr-portal/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow">unify their employee experience</a>.</p>
<p><br />It’s relatively easy to get started with unifying the employee experience—just pick a shared service! Some customers choose to start with HR, others with IT, and some with subsets of each. What we ask is that you simply consider where this change will gain the most traction. So how can you be sure you’re unifying the entire employee experience? By <a title="Onboarding and Transitions" href="https://www.casknx.com/human-resources/hr-onboarding-and-transitions/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow">starting with onboarding</a>. This is the first step of an employee’s journey, so it needs to immerse them into the right company culture with a unified experience.</p>
<p>That means from the very moment a candidate accepts an offer letter, they start evaluating if they made the right decision. On their first day in the office, they should have already been prepared to be a productive, happy member of your team.</p>
<p>After years of helping companies evolve and unify their employee experience, I’m convinced ServiceNow is the only platform that can truly serve as the face of the company to its entire employee base.</p>
<p>Regardless of your HRIS solution, your ERP, or your CRM; ServiceNow is the only viable solution that can tie together—or unify—the employee’s entire experience.</p>
<p>Is it easy? Not particularly. Does it take work? Yep. Is it worth it? Absolutely. And, perhaps most importantly: How can you get started right away!? By partnering with Cask. We create game-changing, culturally-aligned interfaces that are as easy to use as Netflix or Amazon in the areas of HR, Security, Finance, IT and more...</p>
<p>At the same time, we can’t ignore that interfaces are always evolving. At Cask, we stay on the cutting edge of portal technology, artificial intelligence capabilities, and voice-enabled solutions that will soon be a critical element of getting work done effectively and efficiently.</p>
<p>It all comes back to how we’re used to interacting with technology. At home, where we’re able to implement systems we actually like, we’re using web browsers, apps, chat technology, and voice assistants like Alexa and Siri. So why can’t your organization be implementing that same unified strategy to support the entire employee experience?</p>
<p><br />Cask is a Double Gold Service &amp; Sales Partner • Visit our booth #829 • <a title="Cask - Transforming the Way People Work" href="http://www.casknx.com" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow">www.casknx.com</a></p>