---
title: "From PurposeDriven to MeaningCentric How Organizations Can Help Workers Thrive"
date: 2019-05-01T19:07:50.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=b2563c17db4db388a39a0b55ca961918"
---
<p>What does it mean to be a purpose driven organization? These days, there’s a desire among professionals to work for purpose driven businesses, ones that address pressing social and economic issues instead of entities that just make money. We termed this issue of “social enterprise” in our latest annual <a href="https://trendsapp.deloitte.com/reports/2019/global-human-capital-trends/leading-the-social-enterprise-reinvent-with-a-human-focus.html" rel="nofollow">Global Human Capital Trends</a> report, which found that amongst CEOs  surveyed the most important measure of success in 2019 was “impact on society, including income inequality, diversity, and the environment.” But purpose has to be more than just corporate social responsibility. While it will inspire, while it will guide, and while it will serve as a valuable framework, it will not solve the day-to-day realities and issues that the average worker is facing and ultimately what they need to be successful.</p>
<p> </p>
<p>Instead, what workers are looking for is <strong><em>meaning</em></strong>. Meaning is humanistic. And in today’s digital workplace – with algorithms figuring out what tasks to perform and data indicating who you are and what matters to you – the human element is declining. With the advancements in automation and AI rapidly entering the workplace, with the future of jobs in question, with a massive skills gap on the horizon, and with more people defining their identity by their work, how can companies put meaning back into the workplace? </p>
<p> </p>
<p>I believe it’s through the treatment of the worker – that’s what defines <em>meaning</em>. Treatment is reflected in growth and development investments, how companies reward workers for the value they are providing, how they help workers on their personal journey of life-long learning, how they ensure workers aren’t just seen as productive features of the organizations, but rather as meaningful contributors.</p>
<p> </p>
<p>In order to truly tap into the power of human potential, work must be reimagined. This means that you are solving problems that are unseen. You are asking yourselves not &#34;how do I change this work process?&#34; but instead &#34;how do I shift this work outcome?&#34;. Reimagining work requires new ways of thinking and, in turn, creates opportunities for continuous learning, for accelerated development, and for professional and personal growth. That is where and how meaning can be found.</p>
<p> </p>
<p>I will be discussing how reimaging the flow of work impacts organizations at this year’s ServiceNow Knowledge 2019 conference, where Deloitte is a Diamond sponsor. If you plan on attending, please join <a href="https://www2.deloitte.com/us/en/profiles/marwalsh.html" rel="nofollow">Mark Walsh</a> and me for our power session on <a href="https://knowledge.servicenow.com/agenda.html" rel="nofollow">Flow of Work: Exceptional Human Experiences with ServiceNow</a> on Tuesday, May 7 at 3:30pm Venetian F and K rooms.</p>