---
title: "What it means to deliver a consumer experience to employees"
date: 2019-05-03T00:56:53.000Z
authors: ["Liz Evans"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=69df0f27db4dbf84f7fca851ca9619bd"
---
<p>While making a purchase online recently, I had questions about the warranty and how the item compared to a similar one I bought from the same retailer a few years ago. I sent the questions using chat. The retailer answered immediately. Voila, the transaction was complete within two train stops.</p>
<p>The purchase really hit on what exactly it means to deliver a consumer experience. That experience isn’t a buzzword or a tangible thing. It’s a feeling people have. A sense of confidence and trust that their issues are being addressed. When company leaders listen to their employees and consider their specific day-to-day needs, they will likely hear employees’ desire to have this same consumer-grade experience at work.</p>
<p>Many HR departments listen to employees. The Future of Workplace and Beyond.com study entitled The Active Job Seeker Dilemma found that 83 percent of HR leaders said “employee experience” is either important or very important to their organization’s success.</p>
<p>Companies that are listening to their employees are turning to enterprise service management, or ESM, for answers. ESM is a framework for companies to provide employees a consistent, connected experience with a consumer feel. When we developed KPMG Powered ESM, we combined knowledge and experience from a number of functional areas, such as human resources, customer experience, and digital technologies to create a holistic solution that takes ESM even deeper.</p>
<p>KPMG Powered ESM combines the ESM framework, with the ServiceNow platform at the core, to connect and automate a company’s back office across the enterprise—from HR, IT, and finance to procurement, marketing, and facilities. KPMG Powered ESM orchestrates ESM across the enterprise and provides a connected employee experience that encompasses all of their service needs.</p>
<p>Our team believes that by investing in ESM, you’re investing in employees and your business. KPMG Powered ESM creates an entirely new way for employees and function owners to interact to consume and deliver business services that can improve the employee and customer experience while lowering costs and boosting revenue.</p>
<p>We hope to see you in our Emerald booth at Knowledge 2019 where we welcome hearing your goals and challenges. You can also see demonstrations of KPMG Powered ESM and other enabling digital technologies. Visit kpmg.com/us/poweredenterprise and kpmg.com/us/ServiceNow to learn more.</p>