---
title: "Integration Enables Your Digital Transformation"
date: 2019-05-02T03:20:29.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=13172a5bdbc13f44d58ea345ca9619f7"
---
<p>Digital transformation refers to how businesses adapt in order to secure the value of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, which is seeing advances in quantum computing, artificial intelligence, the Internet of Things, and robotics, among other fields.</p>
<h1><span style="font-weight: 400;">Connectivity for Digital Transformation</span></h1>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">The World Economic Forum popularized the term The Fourth Industrial Revolution. Building on the the Third Industrial Revolution’s introduction of personal computers and the internet, the Fourth Industrial Revolution brings more connectivity to the world. Such connectivity includes not only bringing most of the world population online, but also integrating systems to achieve new breakthroughs.</span></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">Let’s be clear—digital transformation is much more than integration. But integration is an inevitable component in the re-engineered strategies and processes of a digitally transformed business. The nimble companies that meet the radical shifts in customers’ expectations are those companies whose systems talk with one another. They give relevant departments needed information to develop the best products and solutions possible and to serve customers the best way possible.</span></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">When Accenture onboards new customers onto their ServiceNow offering, </span><a href="https://youtu.be/rhOywfXoIMM?t&#61;114" rel="nofollow"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Accenture assumes that customers will want integration</span></a><span style="font-weight: 400;">. “Before we went live with any clients we knew we had to have an integration facility,” says Jonathan Livingston, Application Architect at Accenture, “because almost every one of our clients has some level of integration to a system that they own and they run.”</span></p>
<h1><span style="font-weight: 400;">Integration Advances Key Themes of Digital Transformation</span></h1>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">What does digital transformation mean for your integrations?</span></p>
<h2><span style="font-weight: 400;">1. Big Data Analytics</span></h2>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">One breakthrough of the Fourth Industrial Revolution is the phenomenon of big data. In 2017, it was determined that </span><a href="http://reports.weforum.org/digital-transformation/big-data-analytics-and-the-cloud-a-smarter-more-connected-future-ahead/" rel="nofollow"><span style="font-weight: 400;">90% of the world’s data was created in the previous two years</span></a><span style="font-weight: 400;">, with just 0.5% of that data having been analyzed. Such a rate of data creation presents new and enormous opportunities for analytics.</span></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">Your company has a mountain of new data as well, giving you vast opportunities to report on and learn about your company, your suppliers, and your customers. Integrations will help you to strengthen your analytics without performance impacts on production instances.</span></p>
<h2><span style="font-weight: 400;">2. Automation</span></h2>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">A key theme in digital transformation is automation. Businesses automate for artificial intelligence, for robotics, and for Internet of Things. How does automation play a role in service management?</span></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">IT teams automate many service-management elements, including knowledge management, incident management, and reporting.</span></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">Virteva found that nightly transfers of knowledge articles was not frequent enough. When an outage or another disruption occurred, level two staff needed to communicate immediately to level one support personnel. So </span><a href="https://www.perspectium.com/virteva-webinar-recording/" rel="nofollow"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Virteva automated knowledge management through real-time integration</span></a><span style="font-weight: 400;">.</span></p>
<h2><span style="font-weight: 400;">3. New Services</span></h2>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">Chasing to keep up with customer expectations, businesses differentiate by offering new services. Because siloed data and apps weaken the quality and reduce the efficiency of those services, integration is essential. With new services being made available, businesses create new streams of revenue, boosting their financial stability.</span></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">Intermountain Healthcare offered new services for their users when they implemented an integration solution for reporting needs. After doing so, they went further and </span><a href="https://www.perspectium.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/06/Intermountain-use-case.pdf" rel="nofollow"><span style="font-weight: 400;">created a new catalog offering of reports and analytics</span></a><span style="font-weight: 400;"> that the new integration solution made possible.</span></p>
<h1><span style="font-weight: 400;">Prioritizing Integration for Your Digital Transformation</span></h1>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">If your business is starting an initiative in digital transformation, plan for integration to serve a key role. If you are continuing a digital transformation initiative, you may be realizing that integration looms larger than you had originally planned for.</span></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">Whatever stage of digital transformation you’re in, we’d love to hear about your interest in using integration to stay competitive, as more and more businesses move toward digital transformation. Find us at the Perspectium booth at Knowledge 2019.</span></p>