---
title: "PagerDuty At Knowledge  Find us at Booth "
date: 2019-05-01T21:26:18.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=c7065d5bdbc93b44d58ea345ca961990"
---
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">Today’s organizations have made significant investments in</span><a href="https://www.pagerduty.com/partners/servicenow/" rel="nofollow"> <span style="font-weight: 400;">ServiceNow</span></a><span style="font-weight: 400;"> to streamline business and technology workflows, drive down cost and risk, and ensure IT is delivering an amazing service experience to both internal and external customers. However, as technology requirements continue to shift, the ability for IT to react in real time to the volume of data becomes increasingly difficult.</span></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">With the<a href="https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/servicenow-integration-guide" rel="nofollow"> PagerDuty ServiceNow integration</a>, teams can leverage ServiceNow’s workflow and ticketing capabilities with PagerDuty’s robust, real-time digital operations management platform. This integration improves organizations’ service delivery, empowers teams to leverage modern technologies to decrease the business impact of issues that occur, mitigate security risks, and measurably improve their overall operations.</span></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">The PagerDuty team is excited to head to<a href="https://knowledge.servicenow.com/" rel="nofollow"> Knowledge19</a> in May as a ServiceNow Gold Technology Partner. We have a lot in store, and since the show is just around the corner, we want to highlight some of the exciting events we’ve got planned throughout the week.</span></p>
<p><strong>ExpoNow Show Floor</strong></p>
<ol><li><strong> Real-Time Digital Operations Management Across Hybrid Operations</strong></li></ol>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">The ExpoNow show floor will be open from Tuesday, May 7, until Thursday, May 9, and the PagerDuty team will be there all week! Come see us at </span><strong>Booth</strong> <strong>#737</strong><span style="font-weight: 400;"> and learn how PagerDuty has extended its platform core capabilities to help you manage digital operations across the enterprise and empower your teams to take action in real time when issues arise.</span></p>
<ol start="2"><li><strong> Swing By for Swag!</strong></li></ol>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">Did you know? PagerDuty turned 10 this year! Come celebrate our 10-year anniversary with us and pick up your <em>free </em>limited-edition PagerDuty T-shirt at Booth #737.</span></p>
<ol start="3"><li><strong> Schedule a Meeting With Us</strong></li></ol>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">Want some one-on-one time so you can deep dive into PagerDuty’s latest features platform or ask us questions about our ServiceNow integration? Just click the button below to book a meeting with us—we’d love to help!<a href="https://pagerduty.jifflenow.com/servicenowknowledge2019/external_request/df7c07" rel="nofollow"> <strong>Link</strong></a> <strong>to Jifflenow- big button “meet with us”</strong></span></p>
<p><strong>Get to the Green: TopGolf Event</strong></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;"><strong>Join PagerDuty, AWS, and Dynatrace on May 8 at<a href="https://topgolf.com/us/las-vegas/" rel="nofollow"> TopGolf</a>, located in the MGM Grand Hotel Las Vegas. You won’t want to miss this fun-filled evening of networking, good food, and 100&#43; climate-controlled driving ranges. We look forward to seeing you on a night you won’t <em>FORE</em>-get! Space is limited, so reserve your spot now! <a href="https://splashthat.com/sites/view/pagerdutyattopgolf.splashthat.com" rel="nofollow">RESERVE A SPOT HERE</a></strong></span></p>
<p><strong>Speaking Sessions</strong></p>
<p><strong><em>HybridOps With PagerDuty: Breaking Down Silos by Connecting People With Data</em></strong></p>
<p><strong>Thursday, May 9, 11:00 a.m., Partner Theater</strong></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">Our Senior Manager of Product Marketing, Julian Dunn, will explain what HybridOps means and show you how to use PagerDuty’s integration with ServiceNow Incident Management to break down silos by seamlessly sharing operational data between teams across the enterprise. With an enterprise-grade yet consumer-friendly team-oriented experience, PagerDuty can get your IT and DevOps teams connected in minutes, improving speed and efficiency in digital operations and get everyone collaborating to improve business outcomes. You can also enter for the chance to win a Nintendo Wii.</span></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">Interested in learning more? Check out these helpful resources to learn more about PagerDuty and ServiceNow:</span></p>
<ul><li style="font-weight: 400;"><span style="font-weight: 400;">An</span><a href="https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/servicenow" rel="nofollow"> <span style="font-weight: 400;">overview</span></a><span style="font-weight: 400;"> of the ServiceNow integration with PagerDuty</span></li><li style="font-weight: 400;"><span style="font-weight: 400;">The ServiceNow i</span><a href="https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/servicenow-integration-guide" rel="nofollow"><span style="font-weight: 400;">ntegration guide</span></a></li><li style="font-weight: 400;"><span style="font-weight: 400;">See how ServiceNow and PagerDuty can help your team</span><a href="https://www.pagerduty.com/partners/servicenow/" rel="nofollow"> <span style="font-weight: 400;">get ahead of issues</span></a></li></ul>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">We hope to see you there!</span></p>