---
title: "New York release  register for Early Access andor Release Testing Preview"
date: 2019-05-21T05:12:53.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=9b07742ddb693b805129a851ca9619e0"
---
<p>New York Release Testing Preview and Early Availability registrations are now open – you are invited to register today <a href="http://app.connect.servicenow.com/e/er?s&#61;1133&amp;lid&#61;15458&amp;elqTrackId&#61;83893546f39a472aa62a63f90cf5d5df&amp;elq&#61;00000000000000000000000000000000&amp;elqaid&#61;31595&amp;elqat&#61;1" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow"><u>here</u></a>. <br /><br />As of the New York release you can self-register and gain access to both Release Testing Preview and Early Availability programs with a single registration!</p>
<p><br /><strong>Release Testing Preview (RTP)</strong><br /><br /><strong>WHO</strong>: All existing customers (excluding Partner accounts, self-hosted instances and customer accounts that require FedRAMP certification) are invited to participate in Release Testing Preview. The ideal candidates are:</p>
<ul><li>Customers who are eager to take advantage of testing new features in their <em>sub-production</em> environment earlier than ever</li><li>Customers who are willing to engage and report issues/feedback promptly</li><li>Customers who are early adopters, but have a long test time prior to upgrade</li></ul>
<p><strong>WHEN:</strong> For New York, Release Testing Preview (RTP) will be available early July 2019<br /><br /><strong>HOW:</strong></p>
<ul><li>You can self-nominate your account for both Release Testing Preview and Early Availability with a single registration via the HI Service Catalog item <a href="http://app.connect.servicenow.com/e/er?s&#61;1133&amp;lid&#61;15458&amp;elqTrackId&#61;bb41bd851b1d422abf5a2d884f43553e&amp;elq&#61;00000000000000000000000000000000&amp;elqaid&#61;31595&amp;elqat&#61;1" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow"><u>“Release Testing Preview and Early Availability Signup”</u></a> today!</li><li>Upon successful nomination, you will receive a confirmation email.</li><li>Once Release Testing Preview begins, you will receive an RTP Program Starts email and your registered account will be entitled to the RTP pre-release build. You can then schedule your sub-production instance upgrade to RTP via the <a href="http://app.connect.servicenow.com/e/er?s&#61;1133&amp;lid&#61;15459&amp;elqTrackId&#61;acb8e40e980045adaf088147be0a7c0e&amp;elq&#61;00000000000000000000000000000000&amp;elqaid&#61;31595&amp;elqat&#61;1" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow"><u>&#34;Manage Instances&#34;</u></a> page on HI.</li></ul>
<p> </p>
<p><strong>Early Availability (EA)</strong><br /><br /><strong>WHO:</strong> All existing customers (excluding Partners and customer accounts that require FedRAMP certification) are invited to participate in Early Availability. The ideal candidates are:</p>
<ul><li>Customers who want to take advantage of new features on sub-production and production environments as soon as they are released</li><li>Customers who are willing to engage and report issues/feedback promptly</li><li>Customers who want to be among the first who are knowledgeable about the new release</li></ul>
<p><strong>WHEN:</strong> For New York, Early Availability (EA) will be available late July 2019<br /><br /><strong>HOW:</strong></p>
<ul><li>You can self-nominate your account for both Release Testing Preview and Early Availability with a single registration via the HI Service Catalog item <a href="http://app.connect.servicenow.com/e/er?s&#61;1133&amp;lid&#61;15458&amp;elqTrackId&#61;e254d571defa46b3801118662dae7374&amp;elq&#61;00000000000000000000000000000000&amp;elqaid&#61;31595&amp;elqat&#61;1" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow"><u>“Release Testing Preview and Early Availability Signup”</u></a> today!</li><li>Upon successful nomination, you will receive a confirmation email.</li><li>Once Early Availability begins, you will receive NY EA release details and your registered account will be entitled to the EA release build. You can then schedule your sub-production or production instance upgrade to EA via the <a href="http://app.connect.servicenow.com/e/er?s&#61;1133&amp;lid&#61;15459&amp;elqTrackId&#61;ca16219b316e48e3979ef29bdb1081c7&amp;elq&#61;00000000000000000000000000000000&amp;elqaid&#61;31595&amp;elqat&#61;1" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow"><u>&#34;Manage instances&#34;</u></a> page on HI</li></ul>