---
title: "PPM Blog   PPM putting it to work"
date: 2019-08-01T01:03:18.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=59603660db87b7c4d82ffb2439961993"
---
<p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">It has been some time since my last post, and lots have happened. In March, we moved PPM to our PROD environment, and I loaded all our current demands into our PROD instance. During April, our facility activated a large electron health record solution, and PPM was definitely on the back burner. </span><br /><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Our accomplishments over the last several months include: </span><br /><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> • We implemented our Service Portal in the London release. We exposed the Ideas through Snow service portal to our users. We created knowledge articles for our Ideas so our clients know what we are looking for. Also we developed a manual process to send new submitted ideas to the demand managers. This process is currently done via email, however we could easily automate this based on workflow in the future. We also evaluated exposing Demand form instead of Ideas, however since our focus has been starting with Ideas, we stayed with this strategy</span><br /><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> ○ For the first 30 days of Ideas, we have received 18 new ideas and have accepted 15 as viable demands.</span></p>
<p><br /><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> • We trained our three earlier adopters. I have attached our Project Lead educational material. I used a template that I found on one of the older ServiceNow ITBM community posts. I hope my modifications are helpful to someone else. </span></p>
<p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">• Our early adopter projects have done well, and we were able to verify our Project Lead education, standard project template, project progress (Status) reporting, and use our new IS Investment Portal to share with all our full IS team. </span><br /><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> ○ Project template - we are crawling into PPM with one project template. This template has three main phases and three key milestones. Phases are Plan, Execute, Close. Milestones are project start, project plan approved, project go-live, and project after action review. </span></p>
<p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">• We have now trained all our demand/portfolio managers, along with all our project leads. </span></p>
<p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">• We completed one-on-one training with our demand/portfolio managers and small classroom training with our project leads. </span></p>
<p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">• The individual training was an hour with the project leadership class a full two hours. </span></p>
<p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">• I also created PPM ServiceNow KB articles for a project, portfolio, and program leaders. As well, we created an article for our new Demand process. I have attached all our KB articles. </span></p>
<p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">• We have completed our large enterprise project and have all active projects in PPM with Project Leaders working on their high-level project plans. For our initial work, we are keeping all our project plans at a high-level and milestone levels. </span><br /><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> ○ We had initially thought we should keep our project plans at a milestone level, however during our initial project work, it became obvious that using ServiceNow project tasks was a natural next step. The project managers have to remember that only IS has access to PPM tasks and that non-IS task assignment is handled through other processes. We have projects using O365 Outlook task assignment as well as O365 Microsoft Planner to track non-IS project work.</span></p>
<p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">• We are using PPM as a project-based solution vs. the full Agile 2.0 product based methodology. Someone share the youtube video - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v&#61;vVUKWR-rnqg for anyone interested. </span></p>
<p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">• We are leveraging Agile 2.0 enhancements more than we had anticipated. The focus that ServiceNow moved Enhancements / Defects into ITBM and the creation of stories for teams provide solutions. I have attached a document for the Agile process we are using. </span><br /><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> ○ Agile Unified Backlog - We plan to on leveraging the unified backlog capability to pull enhancements into Sprints for teams to manage product enhancements. </span><br /><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> ○ Agile 2.0 - We have created all the necessary Agile products, Agile groups with two-week sprints, loaded many Enhancements directly into ServiceNow based on product, assignment groups, assigned-to field, and priority. Teams will use unified backlog to pull these enhancements into the appropriate product backlog and plan out the delivery based on products and quarterly release project.</span></p>
<p> </p>
<p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">• We have set 7/30 as the end of our initial migration phase and PPM is not our source of truth for all IS project work. During our initial phase, we have focused on validating the following processes</span><br /><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> ○ Use our PPM Demand process for prioritization for all new projects and work. </span><br /><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> ○ Project Leads create project plans for all active projects. </span><br /><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> ○ Use our Investment portal to report weekly progress on our work in process activities. </span></p>
<p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">• We have a Rego PPM post-implementation on-site review planned. I have attached working PPT for that visit.</span></p>
<p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">• Our next goal is to implement the resource planning into our PPM demands and projects. We will complete this in a phased approach and start with estimating resource groups and build up to individual resources.</span></p>