---
title: "Payasyougo ITSM is now a reality for smaller companies"
date: 2019-09-26T20:42:31.000Z
authors: ["robwinn"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=7c5713f6dbc8001823f4a345ca96191d"
---
<p>Keeping end users productive with proactive, consistent IT support is a challenge for organizations of any size, especially smaller ones, but there’s no reason they can’t have enterprise-class IT service management (ITSM) tools such as ServiceNow.</p>
<p>The reality for many small companies is their various departments tend to be siloed off from each other with pockets of subject matter experts who know their job well. However, there’s no knowledge transfer, and hence, no understanding of how issues might affect the entire organization.</p>
<p>A big contributor to the disconnect is there’s no centralized ITSM tool for handling issues and tracking their impact on the organization. Often, smaller companies rely on emails and Excel spreadsheets for tracking support requests, and this information isn’t shared. Combined with inadequate documentation and training, it means the organization isn’t performing as well as it should be, without knowing why. Meanwhile, the lack of consistent processes and procedures means IT support costs are hard to predict and control.</p>
<p>Younger organizations tend to grow so quickly that investment in ITSM tools can’t keep up. Even those companies that have invested in ITSM are using multiple tools that don’t talk to each other, and in some cases are obsolete.  Tool or no tool, not having a unified ITSM strategy can be detrimental to any organization, large or small. The key is to find a happy medium that is tailored to suit specific business needs.</p>
<p>Ultimately, organizations that don’t have any ITSM rigour don’t understand their infrastructure, and each issue that arises is addressed in a reactive nature. Without a proactive, formalized process in place, problematic hardware, software and networking isn’t properly tracked, and there’s no insight as to how individual issues fit together to affect the organization’s overall performance. Without a single system of record that can be validated, reporting is inconsistent and prone to human error because data is being exported and imported across different tools and applications.</p>
<p><strong>Ad-hoc ITSM doesn’t scale</strong></p>
<p>Effective ITSM can’t be accomplished with spreadsheets and emails, and even having multiple tools isn’t effective either if you don’t have a centralized system of action and system of record. What’s needed is the capability to integrate multiple tools or ideally, a single tool that provides all the required ITSM functionality.</p>
<p>If you’ve decided it’s time to go beyond ad hoc ITSM, there are several things to consider. It starts with understanding ITSM best practices and ITIL frameworks so you can get the most from anything you deploy, while also thinking ahead to make sure the platform can grow with you. The best tools go beyond ITSM by adding field services and customer service management, so you can fully break down siloes within your organization.  </p>
<p>It’s important that any ITSM tool you select doesn’t require proprietary languages, otherwise it will be difficult to connect your various software, hardware and networking and have a single view of what’s going on in the organization. Your ITSM tool of choice should be configurable to meet your needs but beware of customization as it can lead to loss of functionality when upgrading to the next version.</p>
<p>While larger companies are willing to make the financial investment in a single tool, smaller organizations may think enterprise-class ITSM such as ServiceNow is beyond their budget. However, there is a model for them to adopt it without heavy investment upfront, rather than having to deploy cheaper alternatives themselves.</p>
<p><strong>Add ITSM capabilities as you need them </strong></p>
<p>Coreio’s ServiceNow Managed Service Provider (MSP) offering is designed to get smaller companies up and running with enterprise-class ITSM quickly and affordably.</p>
<p>Often, purchasing ServiceNow in conjunction with the resources required to support the platform is not feasible from a cost perspective for smaller organizations. Our delivery model lowers the barrier to entry for these organizations because we have no minimum threshold. We can onboard customers onto the ServiceNow platform three times faster by leveraging the investment that we&#39;ve already made, including collective lessons learned by our team of ServiceNow experts, and the expansive Coreio knowledgebase developed from servicing our clients over the years.</p>
<p>For growing companies, Coreio’s ServiceNow MSP offering enables them to scale their ITSM affordably and incrementally. We’re also able to keep up with the latest features and extend capabilities to our hosted solutions, such as asset acquisition and customer service management, at no extra cost. You can start out just using Incident Management with SLAs and create basic Service Requests or immediately move to a fully configured ServiceNow environment.</p>
<p>Coreio’s MSP offering takes advantage of shared economies of scale and leverages the collective expertise and buying power of a pool of organizations who are continuously increasing functionality, upgrading to the latest release, and sharing knowledge. Even the smallest of organizations can invest in enterprise-class ITSM, with predictable costs. Since you’re only paying for what you need, budget planning is simplified, and a clear picture can be provided to the business.</p>