---
title: "Youre Invited itSMF NY Metro LIG  Americas got Catalog Talent"
date: 2013-02-04T23:45:55.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=dbed222ddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961937"
---
<p>The NY Metro LIG is proud to present "America's got Catalog Talent" - A Service Catalog Show and Tell event.<br /> <br />Do you have a great service catalog or does your catalog need some help?<br /> <br />We invite you to join us for our great Service Catalog Show and Tell event. Bring a copy of your service catalog, share it with us and win an opportunity for professional review and feedback, provided by an industry Service Catalog Expert.<br /> <br />Third Sky will also present "Defining IT Services for the Business" a step-by-step approach to creating service catalogs. The presentation covers:<br /> <br />* How to start with the business architecture, business capabilities and business processes<br />* Identifying business services and mapping them to business processes and capabilities<br />* Getting the right level of granularity when defining services<br />* How to validate the business services with customers<br />* Creating a roadmap that uses the Customer-Facing Service Catalog to integrate with Service Level Management and Financial Management<br /> <br />Please join us on Thursday, February 21st, 2013 at 8:00 AM at CA Technologies, 22nd floor, 520 Madison Avenue (between 53d &amp; 54th Streets), New York, NY 10022.<br /> <br />Register for this event at http://itsmfusa.site-ym.com/events/event_details.asp?id=292547&amp;group=87662<br /> <br />Please bring identification with you to the event.<br /> <br />Refreshments are being provided for this event by Omninet.<br /><br />Thanks,<br />Ellen</p>