---
title: "Wondering What Makes a Great Innovation of the Year Submission"
date: 2013-02-09T00:52:37.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=3bed622ddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96196d"
---
<p>When the time comes to submit your Innovation of the Year entry, you may be a little unsure. <i>Is the application I built really innovative? Are my team's results significant enough? Did we break new ground? Was our project on a grand enough scale?</i> We know what you're thinking, and the answer to these questions is <strong>YES</strong>. <br/><br/>Our <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://www.servicenow.com/success.do" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">ServiceNow customers</a> innovate every day. You work hard at what you do… You are changing the way IT is delivered; you are delighting your end customers; you are solving problems with new applications; you are automating key business functions, both within and outside of IT. <i><strong>In the thick of things, you may not feel as though you are innovating — but trust us, you are.</strong></i> We don't want you to miss out on the opportunity to be recognized for your achievements, whether or not you're aware of what your team has attained. <br/><br/>To help you out, we've compiled a list of submission ideas to jump-start the brainstorming process. Ask yourself these questions: <br/><br/>•<strong>New applications</strong>. Have you leveraged ServiceNow as a platform upon which your team built a new application?<br/>•<strong>Business challenge</strong>. How have you leveraged ServiceNow to overcome a business challenge with stellar results? <br/>•<strong>Globalization</strong>. Did your company experience explosive growth and develop separate IT systems around the world? How did you use ServiceNow to solve the disparity?<br/>•<strong>Critical improvements</strong>. With ServiceNow, do you manage daily work more efficiently and thus leave room for even more improvements? What are some of those improvements?<br/>•<strong>Side projects</strong>. Was your team experimenting or skill-building with the ServiceNow platform when a side project turned into an everyday essential?<br/>•<strong>Outside of IT</strong>. How have you taken ServiceNow outside of IT and solved larger enterprise problems? For example, how efficient is your employee on-boarding process or your facilities management process?<br/>•<strong>Consolidate</strong>. Did your company merge with another? Was there a large-scale consolidation within IT that screamed for automation and reducing the number of tools in use? Did you use ServiceNow to ease internal processes?<br/>•<strong>Domino effect</strong>. If you've applied ServiceNow to improve your business in more than one way, you shouldn't have to choose between projects. Submit multiple entries!<br/><br/>This list is just a fragment of the amazing innovations we have seen. Use the comments section to help us come up with more!</p>