---
title: "Financial Services IT Making Dollars  Sense"
date: 2013-02-01T21:49:57.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=5c7dae29dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961924"
---
<p>As if the financial services industry wasn't stressful enough already, the roles of IT and the CIO within such firms are changing about as rapidly as the stock ticker at the bottom of your screen. Business happens at breakneck speed, meaning competition for business services and data availability literally runs the show. Merely to survive, IT must get beyond sheer maintenance to become an integral part of running the enterprise. </p><p></p><p>Picture the typical operational backdrop with legacy help desk software straining to keep up. Sprinkle in a few lost tickets per day, employees that switch departments, reporting/extracting issues and two additional versions of the product that don't cross-communicate. You don't have to be an economics whiz to understand this crisis.</p><p></p><p>Savvy IT leaders at financial services firms know there's a way to eliminate these pain points <strong>NOW</strong>. IT also wants credit (and rightly so) for being the business backbone — provided it can cut costs, improve efficiency and contribute value.</p><p></p><p>This is what we hear when we talk to industry leaders, like <a title="w.central1.com/" href="http://www.central1.com/">Central1</a>, who chose ServiceNow as their system of record for managing and automating IT services. Besides the ability to brush the dust off their age-old ITSM practices, they observe four tangible improvements after implementation:</p><p></p><p>1)<strong>Major time savings:</strong> Invent your own ticket types in seconds instead of being stuck with just one. Run reports in minutes instead of days. Really dig into what the issues are. <br/>2)<strong>Analytics:</strong> Drill down exactly what IT has been accomplishing. Listen to customers more effectively. <br/>3)<strong>Benefits beyond IT:</strong> Improve facilities management, vendor management, employee onboarding and service catalog. Build a customer contact application and add capabilities according to your imagination.<br/>4)<strong>Meticulous tracking:</strong> Track each individual PDA, keyboard and computer monitor on the trading floor. Respond to incidents and requests in minutes.</p><p></p><p>To today's financial services industry, the adage "time is money" seems more relevant than ever. To function as a key business partner and thrive at high speeds, increasingly more IT leaders understand that the time is <strong>NOW</strong> to innovate where it matters most. <a title="w.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,82aa29a087ceb040a098183a2d434de7" href="http://www.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,82aa29a087ceb040a098183a2d434de7">Watch this recent webinar</a> to find out how some of the top banking, investment services, diversified insurance and consumer <a title="fo.servicenow.com/LP=890" href="http://info.servicenow.com/LP=890">financial firms use ServiceNow</a> to make dollars and sense.</p>