---
title: "JDBC Workflow Activity  Make database calls via workflow  You know you wanna"
date: 2013-03-08T01:37:19.000Z
authors: ["Christopher.Maloy"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=7cbd2aa9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96198c"
---
<p>Look, there are life rules I live by <br />- buy low, sell high<br />- learning is a life long process<br />- play nice with others<br />- <b>if you ever find yourself the opportunity to work with John Andersen you DO IT! The guy is brilliant. Seriously, I can't say enough about him. He was my mentor here at ServiceNow and the person who brought me on.</b><br /><br />Anyhow - I recently had a customer that needed to make JDBC queries within a workflow, so I started working on a solution I could reuse for them and others. I mentioned my great idea to the one and only John Andersen and sure enough he was working on the same problem. I suggested instead of duplicating effort we work together. He agreed and I want to make available the combination of our efforts. I almost feel guilty saying that, because in reality his approach and code was better overall, so we went with his jdbc probe approach.<br /><br /><b>The attachment is on this page and includes only one new workflow activity.</b><br /><br />I am posting this to the community so you will try it out and help us shake out any bugs. I still have on my todo list the following items:<br />1. Get attachment support in the on complete handler (in case our result is an attachment).<br />2. Data Source support (so you can configure a data source and just select which data source you want in the workflow activity)<br />3. Testing with the variety of databases we offer.<br /><br />Please follow this forum for any updates we make to it (hopefully we can get our development to eventually add this activity to our product down the road). Your feedback is necessary (else you can't use our code). :) Thanks all and stay tuned more to come.</p>