---
title: "Training Formats Explained"
date: 2013-03-06T00:28:50.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=808c26e1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961983"
---
<p>Our Process User Training Program offers a variety of delivery options for our customers. Sometimes I get questions during scoping calls as to what each one is. One of the points of confusion is usually around the "train-the-trainer" option. Let me try to explain each format in some more detail:</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><strong>Instructor-Led (ILT)</strong><br/>This is probably the easiest to understand. It is the most traditional form of training; some one is standing in front of you teaching. You can throw tomatoes at them if you don't like their jokes.</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p>Benefits: Easier to ask questions, live interaction with other students, students can focus better since they are in a confined environment with someone supervising them.<br/>Risks: This is usually the most expensive format since you cannot train as many people in a live format versus a virtual format, usually due to room size. You will also have to pay for the instructor's travel costs.</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><strong>Virtual Instructor-Led (VILT)</strong><br/>Also referred to as a "webinar", in this format an instructor delivers the course through a virtual classroom such as WebEx, GoToMeeting, or Adobe Connect. The class is still going on "live" and the interaction is done through VOIP/telephone line as well as via a chat log. If you don't like the instructor's jokes, you will have to resort to emoticons â˜¹</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p>Benefits: No travel costs for students or instructor. Can scale across multiple regions and time zones.<br/>Risks: Students are more likely to multi-task during class. Less interaction with other students.</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><strong>Train-the-Trainer (TTT)</strong><br/>The audience for a train-the-trainer session is usually a little different than a "regular" training; not only do they need to learn the content, they also need to learn how to be able to teach others the content. In addition to the training content, the students will be given tips and tricks on how to handle questions from students at certain places in the material.</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p>Benefits: Helps you scale your training by having certain members of your team enabled to teach others.<br/>Risks: You need to identify the appropriate people to attend.</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><strong>KEY POINT</strong>: A train-the-trainer session can be delivered live or in a virtual classroom.</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><strong>Self-Paced Training</strong><br/>In this format, the training content is recorded for future playback. Files can be saved in a variety of formats such as .mp4, .avi, and .mov. It's essentially the same as a webinar except for the fact that it is NOT live. The recording uses the training content and demos the same way as if it were delivered in a virtual classroom.</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p>Benefits: Training can be made available on-demand.<br/>Risks: Recordings are done at a specific point in time. If you need to make changes, you usually have to re-record the entire training.</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><strong>Summary</strong><br/>Our Process User Training Program offers a variety of formats. You are not limited to any one of these formats when you select your delivery method. In fact, we sometimes have customers only wanting us to develop the content for them while they take care of delivering it. In any case, we like that we can provide a variety of options to our customers to suit their budget and their needs.</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p>If you have any further questions about our training programs, please do not hesitate to contact me at <a title="k-email-small" class="jive-link-email-small" href="mailto:andy.ho@servicenow.com">andy.ho@servicenow.com</a></p>