---
title: "CreateNow Participate in the Hackathon at Knowledge "
date: 2013-03-09T03:43:21.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=2d9c2ee1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96198b"
---
<p>Speed. Endurance. Skill. Innovation.<br/><br/>Where else can you combine your drive to develop, your passion to create and your need to win? During the first ever <strong>CreateNow Hackathon</strong> at Knowledge 13, over 400 ServiceNow administrators and developers will race the clock to create innovative, transformational uses of the ServiceNow Service Automation Platform. <br/><br/>Just after lunch on May 14, participants can work in teams or alone to follow their imaginations. Build an application, a game, a tool, or anything else you can think of. You'll have until midnight to compete, have fun, learn, enjoy <strong>free food and drink</strong>, and create. Winners receive bragging rights and prizes, not to mention an unforgettable team-building experience.<br/><br/><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Rules are as follows:</span><br/>- There are no limits to what can be built … but it must be built on ServiceNow.<br/>- You can elect to work alone, or you can start forming your team today.<br/>- Clean instances will be provided at the start of the event.<br/>- Work cannot commence prior to the Hackathon. Update sets cannot be prepared and loaded into the instance in advance.<br/><br/>During lunch the following day, finalists will show off their creations to the entire Knowledge 13 crowd … who will then vote for the winner.<br/><br/>Take advantage of the rare opportunity to work side-by-side with some of the world's most experienced ServiceNow developers and participate in an eleven-hour event that will truly illustrate the power of the ServiceNow platform. <br/><br/>For more information, visit the <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="https://knowledge.servicenow.com/k13/k13_hackathon.do" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">CreateNow Hackathon page</a>. <br/><br/>*If you registered for Knowledge 13 during the Early Bird window, you have priority seating access to the Hackathon and Lab sessions. Sign up for the Hackathon between March 19-26. <br/><br/>*If you registered for Knowledge 13 after February 16, register for the Hackathon between March 27 — April 5. <br/><br/>*Only first come, first served Hackathon seating will be available for those who register for Knowledge 13 after March 26.</p>