---
title: "Innovation Inspiration from Symfoni and Telstra"
date: 2013-03-01T23:52:43.000Z
authors: ["sarah.manning"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=5d3daae5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96193e"
---
<p>We've said it before, but we'll say it again: Our customers are brilliant.<br/><br/>Incoming Innovation of the Year award submissions fall nothing short of expectations. Today we'll highlight two amazing entries help spark your imagination and creativity. Let's innovate!<br/><br/>We can't wait to see <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="https://knowledge.servicenow.com/k13/k13_innovation.do" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">your submission</a> soon.<br/><br/><strong>Company Name:</strong> Symfoni<br/><strong>Business Problem:</strong> Like many large organizations, Symfoni was looking to bridge the gap between business departments. How can Sales, Delivery, Contract Management, Office Management, Support and Internal IT communicate better? Further, how can Support aid the Sales cycle? Symfoni also wanted to create one internal portal for everyone to manage their business, view each other's business, search the knowledge base, and report internal requests. <br/><strong>Solution</strong>: On-boarding all departments into the instance and creating direct links between different modules.<br/><strong>Process:</strong><br/>*<span style="text-decoration: underline;">Contract Administration</span> - As soon as sales opportunities close, they are visible in the dashboards of Sales, Management, Support, and Contract Management. Anyone can take the action to add the contract to the system and add a reference to the opportunity.<br/>*<span style="text-decoration: underline;">New Field</span> - A Product field was added to the contract and incident forms for the customer to select when submitting an incident. SLAs are triggered for specific product-related incidents.<br/>*<span style="text-decoration: underline;">Integration</span> - Customers may only submit incidents on products they have valid support contracts for. With information directly linked between contracts and incident forms, Support must no longer manually check contract validity. Project metrics are visible on dashboards in every department, and communication has improved across the organization.<br/><strong>Results:</strong><br/>*One content management portal where everyone can obtain information, get support, and complete daily work. <br/>*Improved speed of work. <br/>*Increased communication between all departments; support for the Sales cycle.<br/>*Improved team spirit as one organization with one goal. <br/><br/><br/><strong>Company Name:</strong> Telstra Global<br/><strong>Business Problem:</strong> Telstra wanted to replace the spine of the business systems stack from Prospect-2-Cash. Goals were to keep the project cost low, deliver in 12 months, guarantee data integrity and improve the customer experience. Telstra also wanted to reduct the systems stack Opex and turn it into a strategic advantage for the company.<br/><strong>Solution:</strong> Turn ServiceNow into a central portal to orchestrate the application stack. Deliberately transition to SaaS. Use the application to support all customer-facing services and drive post-sales operations.<br/><strong>Process:</strong><br/>*<span style="text-decoration: underline;">Data Migration</span> - From the legacy system; was quite an undertaking.<br/>*<span style="text-decoration: underline;">Onboard</span> - Order Management, Fulfillment engineers, Sales desk, Billing, Assurance, Field engineers, Account Managers.<br/><strong>Results:</strong><br/>*95% of business transitioned into ServiceNow.<br/>*30 complex products supported.<br/>*12 month delivery goal reached.<br/>*Low project cost.<br/>*50% reduction in IT Opex.<br/><br/><br/>Inspired yet? Stay tuned for more compelling innovations in the coming weeks. <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="https://knowledge.servicenow.com/k13/k13_innovation.do" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Submit yours today</a>!</p>