---
title: "Bosch and Siemens moves existing IT processes to the cloud"
date: 2013-03-26T01:00:01.000Z
authors: ["sarah.manning"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=8d4deee5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96193a"
---
<p>After many years operating a home-grown solution for ITSM, Bosch and SiemensHousehold Appliances (BSH), one of the world's largest manufacturers of household appliances, decided to move to the cloud.<br/> <br/>With the new solution, BSH hoped to improve core IT processes. While maintaining a high level of integration with existing tools and systems and implementing improvements, BSH could also not afford to step backward in the maturity ofthose systems. BSH chose ServiceNow for the way it interacts seamlessly with HP Service Manager via 15 different interfaces. BSH uses HP Service Manager for user interaction, change management, order fulfillment and configuration management, while ServiceNow is utilized for the entire service catalog and to enable employee self-service.<br/> <br/>In addition, data protection is a top priority at BSH. But the team has not been disappointed. ServiceNow provided a comprehensive contract that included every relevant data safety regulation, which the legal team at BSH readily approved. <br/> <br/>After initial implementation, the team received positive feedback from users and was surprised at the wide range of functions ServiceNow offered right out of the box. <br/> <br/><a title="orpsite.service-now.com/sys_attachment.do?sysparm_referring_url=tear_off&view=true&sys_id=c894e42987337080a098183a2d434d80" href="https://corpsite.service-now.com/sys_attachment.do?sysparm_referring_url=tear_off&amp;view=true&amp;sys_id=c894e42987337080a098183a2d434d80">Read more about Bosch and Siemens' move to the cloud.</a></p>