---
title: "Your Innovation Partner"
date: 2013-04-05T22:25:51.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=38cdeea9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96193c"
---
<p>After last year's Knowledge conference, we overheard a customer say that for them, "ServiceNow is an innovation partner." <br/><br/>As it so happens, we feel the same about our customers. From the constant feedback we receive every day to the inspirational applications we see built on the platform, ServiceNow would not be the company it is today without the creativity and brilliance of its customers. <br/><br/>You're encouraged to share that creativity and brilliance. If you have yet to submit your entry for the Innovation of the Year Award, now is the time. <strong>The April 15 deadline</strong> is only 10 days away, so don't wait. <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="https://knowledge.servicenow.com/k13/k13_innovation.do" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Submit now</a>. <br/><br/>Here's what one of last year's winners had to say about the award:<br/><br/><i>"This award is a great honor and we could not done it without the amazing platform you provided. If you liked this year's submission, next year will blow you away."<br/><br/>"I almost fell of my chair when Fred mentioned our company during his keynote. We felt a such a strong sense of pride, not because Fred recognized our submission, but because we are a part of a larger vision that is becoming reality. It was truly amazing."</i><br/>. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .<br/>Speaking of keynotes, <strong><a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="https://knowledge.servicenow.com/k13/k13_home.do" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Knowledge 13</a> is ONE MONTH away!</strong> This year, we have doubled our capacity for lab sessions — which means double the hands-on education. Learn from your peers, provide value for your organization and return home ready to innovate. <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="https://knowledge.servicenow.com/k13/k13_home.do" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Secure your spot and register</a> before we sell out.<br/><br/>See what last year's conference attendees had to say about their experience:<br/><br/><i>"This is the best conference I have ever been to — and I have been to a lot of conferences in my career. I was amazed by how a company with only 700 employees can blow away events put on by companies with 50,000 — 100,000 employees."<br/><br/>"We are going to present at Knowledge13 — this conference has been unbelievable."<br/><br/>"I found the conference extremely informative and helpful in defining our company's ongoing strategy. I was very glad that I went."<br/><br/>"We can't wait to get home and implement."<br/><br/>"We felt as if we were standing on the shoulders of giants the entire time."<br/><br/>"This is once in a lifetime. It's game changing. It's the Power of Now."</i><br/>. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .<br/><br/>KPMG is the premier sponsor of Knowledge13.</p>