---
title: "Be Inspired by the Innovators of Knowledge"
date: 2013-04-11T01:03:09.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=873e22addbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619dc"
---
<p>Recently, we highlighted the amazing <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://community.servicenow.com/blog/sarahmanning/be-inspired-innovators-knowledge-12" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">innovations from Knowledge12</a> in the hopes of inspiring your submission. With just a few days to deadline for the 2013 Innovation of the Year Award, see what your peers created in 2011 and be inspired to submit your own entry. <br/><br/>. . . . . . . . . . . . . .<br/><br/><strong>2011 Winners:</strong><br/><br/><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Verisign</span> — Verisign used the ServiceNow PaaS to create applications to manage their data center assets — including more than 125,000 IP addresses and 1800 subnets, and including support for more than 7000 IPv6 addresses and 30 IPv6 subnets. Verisign also created a data center power and space management application complete with visualizations of Verisign data center floor maps and server racks, all of which are tied back to Verisign's CMDB in ServiceNow.<br/><br/><span style="text-decoration: underline;">CERN</span> — As one of the world's largest and most respected centers for scientific research, CERN created the CERN Service Portal, an intuitive and interactive interface that allows over 10,000 CERN employees and visiting scientists to request more than 650 services. These services included office and laboratory infrastructure, safety services including medical services and the fire brigade, computing infrastructure, and many more. Additionally, CERN implemented a configurable, real-time search engine that optimizes search results while maintaining a &lt; 300ms response time. The resulting webpages include categorical rankings that enable an enhanced, user-friendly experience.<br/><br/>. . . . . . . . . . . . . .<br/><br/><strong>2011 Finalists:</strong><br/><br/><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Intel</span> — Intel simplified complexity by using ServiceNow to create dynamic change management workflows. Intel created a handful of standard change management workflows and approval structures to be used by hundreds of unique services. These standard workflows define their own deviation from standard process at runtime based on constantly changing approval group requirements.<br/><br/><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Key Energy</span> — Key Energy uses ServiceNow to manage everything from truck maintenance to safety response incidents in the field. Key Energy used ITIL practices as a foundation to create evolved processes that fit the specific requirements of its business. Specifically, Key Energy now uses ServiceNow to help improve equipment uptime to nurture safety, promote environmental health, and increase crew productivity.<br/><br/><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Kimberly-Clark</span> — Kimberly-Clark developed a monitoring system on the ServiceNow platform to reduce costs, eliminate duplicate incidents, and achieve better reporting and control. This new monitoring system replaced a legacy tool to help Kimberly-Clark save $250,000in annual maintenance costs.<br/><br/><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Qualcomm</span> — Qualcomm created a service request kiosk application on the ServiceNow platform to improve customer service. The kiosk application is provided at Qualcomm IT walk-up centers and allows employees to more rapidly request and receive hardware, software and IT services. The application provides employees with more visibility into the status of their request and makes more efficient use of IT resources.<br/><br/>. . . . . . . . . . . . . .<br/><br/><strong>Deadline to submit is April 15. <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="https://knowledge.servicenow.com/k13/k13_innovation.do" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Submit now!</a></strong></p>