---
title: "Whats better than a guided tour of Bristol with Chris Berman This sports fan paid  to find out"
date: 2013-04-14T22:33:37.000Z
authors: ["dturchin"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=79ec6e65dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961932"
---
<p>We took our girls, ages two and four, to see Stanford play Arizona in football on a whim a few months back. They climbed palm trees and mingled with Olympians. We saw 102 points of schoolyard ridiculousness. Stanford was in the BCS top ten while Arizona was on a winning streak and had a Swiss cheese defense. A game like that should have been sold out hours before kickoff and might well have been.<br/><br/><span>But these days, that doesn't matter. Up until kickoff or tipoff or puck drop, event tickets are available. [Geek-cred punch line…] As with many of life's pleasures, there's an app - heck, a cottage industry - for that. In the case of my Stanford tickets, it was built on ServiceNow.[float=right][img=291x175]</span><a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://beyondthebets.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/10/stanford.jpg[/img][/float]" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">http://beyondthebets.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/10/stanford.jpg[/img][/float]</a><span> </span><br/><br/>When I needed tickets I didn't bother checking with the box office or arm-wrestling scalpers or slipping through gate 23 (there goes that secret). I went online and purchased seats on the 50 from a fan who couldn't use them for 97% off face value one hour before game time. I happily paid a $2.50 convenience fee, printed at home, and, for at least an hour, became Daddy the Omnipotent. Until that string cheese incident in the second quarter. Power is short-lived.<br/><br/>I later had an opportunity to hear how the app came to be from its author. Much as I kept attempting to drape him in an S cape and lock him in a phone booth, he humbly claimed to have built the app in a day, integrated it with his company's ERP system in a week, and deployed it to replace an aging SharePoint app within a month. I then got a tour. I wouldn't have been any more impressed getting a tour of the Bristol control room from Berman himself.<br/><br/>It's a simple app, powerful only in that it processes thousands of transactions daily that automate the fulfillment and rebate process for most major league sporting events. Traffic hit an all-time high last year before the MLB all star game. Here's the recipe: build a simple data model (venues have events, events have tickets, tickets have buyers and sellers and statuses) then wrap a bit of workflow, a simple UI, and a few SOAP integrations around it. Nothing more complicated than that and a bit of inspiration from an IT hero who recognized that fulfilling requests to buy tickets is awfully close to fulfilling requests to fix laptops.<br/><br/>Now the CIO who thought she had purchased an ITSM system realizes she actually bought a way to accelerate her career and get IT a permanent seat in the board room. ServiceNow morphed from being an enabling technology for IT to being a business-essential platform for the company. Since deploying the app, corporate profits are up and - here's the kicker - so is internal customer sat because even the IT apps are benefiting from automation techniques used to sell tickets. So I saved a bunch of money and had a special day with the family. Meanwhile, a savvy ServiceNow customer was raking in convenience fees and crushing the competition.<br/><br/><strong><i>The Index of PaaS Activity</i></strong><br/><br/>The IPA had a banner month, shaking off its holiday malaise with an impressive gain of <strong><span style="color: green;">27.9%</span></strong>. PaaS-related job postings (<strong><span style="color: green;">+4.04%</span></strong>) and tweets (<strong><span style="color: green;">+19.05%</span></strong>) pushed the index higher. PaaS-related stocks also contributed to the increase (<strong><span style="color: green;">+2.15%</span></strong>) but indicate little about PaaS activity given the broader S&amp;P 500 index advanced 5.08% during the period.</p>