---
title: "Global Training Eases Migration for Carlson Wagonlit Travel"
date: 2013-04-16T01:22:15.000Z
authors: ["sarah.manning"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=5a5da629dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961989"
---
<p>Carlson Wagonlit Travel (CWT) is a global leader specializing in business travel management as well as meetings and events. CWT serves companies, government institutions and non-governmental organizations of all sizes in more than 150 countries and territories.</p><p></p><p>The IT team at CWT was looking to remodel the way it ran IT service management. In doing so, it faced several challenges:</p><p></p><p>ITIL — IT needed to leverage ITIL best practices to optimize handling of service incidents and support requests.</p><p></p><p><strong>Automation</strong> — Internal IT and customer-facing support units were processing about 13,000 tickets per week, 10,000 of which were service requests. About 10% of those were for password resets, a process that could be automated.</p><p></p><p><strong>Complexity</strong> — The previous system was complex and made it difficult for users to adapt to implementations. For this reason, users were apprehensive about introducing another system.</p><p></p><p><strong>Training</strong> — Internal training was less-than-optimal. Just two or three CWT subject matter experts were available to train over 1,000 global users with a handful of Web sessions. They could only teach in English, and didn't have enough time or resources to create adequate training materials.</p><p></p><p>To solve these issues, CWT selected ServiceNow and together began to design a better, customized training program incorporating virtual workshops, a three-day face-to-face series, a virtual two-day series, and multilingual capabilities.</p><p></p><p>Through the customized training program, CWT created a group of super-users who knew system strengths inside and out. As a result, the IT team can look ahead and plan strategically for what comes after the initial ServiceNow implementation. CWT has service catalog, request management, CRM, and even more training development in mind.</p><p></p><p>"Users now see our migration as a positive development, and they are looking forward to future ServiceNow deployments," said Robert Coenen, senior director of Technology Services at CWT.</p><p></p><p>To learn more, <a title="w.servicenow.com/content/dam/servicenow/documents/case-studies/cs-cwt-201304.pdf" href="http://www.servicenow.com/content/dam/servicenow/documents/case-studies/cs-cwt-201304.pdf">download the full case study</a>.</p>