---
title: "Career Education Corporation Driving Service Management Far Beyond IT"
date: 2013-04-10T02:40:10.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=682de2e5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619da"
---
<p>Career Education Corporation (CEC) owns colleges, schools and universities on 90 campuses in North America and Europe. With more than 75,000 students around the world and no central repository for IT Service Management, individual campuses used to implement and manage their own stand-alone applications and systems. <br /><br />CEC sought a single system of record for enterprise IT and was looking to solve five major pain points:<br /><br />- <u>Rigidity:</u> There was no room for customization in the legacy service desk workflow-based tool that ran employee onboarding. The application wasn't scalable.<br />- <u>Dispersion:</u> CEC needed to consolidate a large network of external vendors, plus several different back-end systems and apps. <br />- <u>Transparency:</u> IT wanted to advertise services, show service delivery and introduce self-service.<br />- <u>Visibility:</u> IT needed to be able to understand the needs of each campus environment. Disparate tracking systems impeded effective cross-campus management.<br />- <u>Inefficiency:</u> CEC needed a system of applications that would not require much training or experience, and that had a low overhead cost.<br /><br />When CEC implemented ServiceNow Change, Incident, Request and Problem Management applications and replaced its legacy onboarding system, IT was able to start fresh and add functionality.<br /><br />With ServiceNow, CEC provides a single, enterprise-class solution to enable a consistent user experience across the company. CEC has been able to address many more critical needs:<br /><br />- Automation for more processes<br />- Visibility into repeat issues and patterns and drive out inefficiency in processes<br />- Build a better service catalog and eliminate some of the top ticket categories<br />- Diminish the barriers between campus departments and increase collaboration.<br /><br />Before, campuses couldn't easily talk to each other and corporate had no central repository. Now, with a single system of record, IT at CEC can better organize and route customer issues and needs — and better understand those needs to improve service.<br /><br /><a title="w.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,a45457d187248d8093db7b2d7d434d0f" href="http://www.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,a45457d187248d8093db7b2d7d434d0f">Read the full customer success story</a> to learn more.</p>