---
title: "My agenda for Knowledge"
date: 2013-04-28T03:00:27.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=e9ada2a9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96198f"
---
<p>Tonight I've been busy sorting out my agenda for Knowledge13 - only 2 weeks (and 5 thousand miles) away in Las Vegas.<br /><br />The breadth and variety of content is just amazing. Every 50 minute timeslot for breakout sessions has at least two and often more talks that I really want to attend. It's almost unfair that so many great sessions are scheduled at the same time.<br /><br />Here's what I've decided to catch whilst at Knowledge this year - it's going to be a great conference<br /><br /><h2>Tuesday</h2><br /><br />0800-0930: Opening Keynote: The End of No. The Beginning of Now. Frank Slootman, CEO, ServiceNow<br />0950-1040: K.I.S.S. Change and Config at the Henry Ford Health System<br />1100-1150: i.Serve - Service Catalog for more than 620.000 Volkswagen Users<br />1320-1410: Transitioning from Change Control to Change Management<br />1430-1520: Exploiting ServiceNow for Process Improvement and Automation<br />1540-1740: I'll be presenting my lab "Update Sets - A Better Way of Moving Code"<br /><br /><h2>Wednesday</h2><br /><br />0800-0950: Keynote: The Future of Now, Fred Luddy<br />1010-1100: Why We Need DevOps Now: A 14-Year Study Of High-Performing IT Organizations (with <a title="witter.com/realgenekim" href="https://twitter.com/realgenekim">Gene Kim</a>)<br />1120-1210: Panel: Culture Eats Process for Lunch … Social Knowledge, Collaboration &amp; Gamification (with <a title="witter.com/stephenmann" href="https://twitter.com/stephenmann">Stephen Mann</a> and <a title="witter.com/paulhardyuk" href="https://twitter.com/paulhardyuk">Paul Hardy</a>)<br />1340-1540: I'll be presenting my lab "SDLC: An Agile Approach with Scrum"<br />1600-1650: Advanced Change Assessment<br />1710-1800: The Future of Self-Service: Knowledge Communities (with <a title="witter.com/Lawmune" href="https://twitter.com/Lawmune">Lawrence Eng</a>)<br /><br /><h2>Thursday</h2><br /><br />0900-0950: Keynote: ITopia and CreateNow Hackathon Awards<br />1010-1100: Driving IT Service Excellence at Swiss Re (with <a title="witter.com/sdolgy" href="https://twitter.com/sdolgy">Sasha Dolgy</a>)<br />1120-1210: Using ServiceNow for HR Case Management<br />1240-1330: ServiceNow &amp; Automated Code Deployments<br />1350-1440: Less Task Pain with a Unified Task Pane<br /><br />That's a pretty full agenda of Change Management, Config Management, DevOps, SDLC and Service Catalog.<br /><br />Roll on #know13 - I can't wait.</p>