---
title: "The CreateNow Hackathon What will you come up with"
date: 2013-05-01T23:04:24.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=bd1d22e5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961928"
---
<p>Seriously folks, eat your Wheaties, drink that triple espresso, and get ready to rumble. You may see me wandering the HACK-THEATRE for the first ever <a title="nowledge.service-now.com/k13/view_content.do?sysparm_sys_id=dd7b824070040100bde0a09d86ac200f&sysparm_document_key=menu_item,65c830bf70733000bde0a09d86ac20e7&uri=" href="https://knowledge.service-now.com/k13/view_content.do?sysparm_sys_id=dd7b824070040100bde0a09d86ac200f&amp;sysparm_document_key=menu_item,65c830bf70733000bde0a09d86ac20e7&amp;uri=">CreateNow Hackathon</a> at Knowledge 13.<br /><br />This is going to be exciting. Think of the bragging rights you will have for participating and winning the CreateNow Hackathon. Use it on your Resume! Most of all, come have some fun. This is a great opportunity to learn and grow from your peers, as well as share and become part of the <a title="mmunity.servicenow.com/knowledge13-community-portal" href="http://community.servicenow.com/knowledge13-community-portal">community</a>. Show off your cool ideas, inspire others, and deal your competitors, in this year's CreateNow Hackathon, a crushing blow and win the title of first ever Hack-Champion.<br /><br />My imagination is going crazy. What will you come up with? I would really love to see someone use the platform as an air traffic controller, or turn ServiceNow and mobile devices into those funny DIADS the UPS delivery people use, or as a police dispatcher (that is real incident management in action), or my favorite idea I've come up with so far - use ServiceNow Orchestration to automate those cool twinkle Christmas light shows I spend all my time on Youtube watching. <br /><br />I am looking forward to meeting all of you brave and bold ServiceNow developers. During the competition please talk with me. I may be able to offer some advice depending on your goals. It is going to be fun and lets stay in touch. Cheers!</p>