---
title: "Whats changing ITs stuck paradigm of training and certification"
date: 2013-05-08T23:42:18.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=cf6caea1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96195a"
---
<p>The <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://community.servicenow.com/blog/seanpmcclean/woman-goose-and-parking-lot-itil-real-world" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">GooseGuy</a> is at it again, this time with a conference topic for TFT13 — TFT is a virtual, follow-the-sun conference — highlighting 24 of the most interesting topics across the future of IT — and voting is determined by social media — in other words you! Below is a brief explanation (and a hope that you'll vote!) - so what's the topic?<br/><br/>OK, most of you know Rock, Paper, Scissors right? Any true pocket-protected, propeller-helmeted geek is familiar with the new variation: Rock, Paper, Scissors, Lizard, Spock! But just in case you're a little behind on the ultimate nerdvana of the Big Bang Theory, or you're too busy for games, or you've been living under, er, well a rock, here's a link about the new twist to an old game:<br/> <br/><a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rock-paper-scissors-lizard-spock" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rock-paper-scissors-lizard-spock</a><br/> <br/>Here's the thing: Throw a little Lizard and Spock into an old game and it becomes, well, complicated. Weird. Maybe even (gasp) Disrupted.<br/> <br/>Now being disruptive is very much a buzzword these days, and no one likes a good buzz(word) more than the IT Crowd. We're all about breaking trends, habits, patterns and "shaking them up". <br/> <br/>But when it comes to IT training and education, well, training is training is training… right? Some might say not much has changed in training and education since Socrates. Sure, now we deliver some of it online, but really it's the same model: Take the class, pass the test, get the cert. Next! <br/> <br/>But it's no longer working for us: Certifications have become so bountiful they cause more confusion than clarification; Just in Time training almost never is (in time), the cost of training or education in any form is skyrocketing, and it's almost impossible to figure out how much time and money you (or your company) should be spending to learn things.<br/> <br/>So it's time for a little jolt. A Little Shake Up. A little Disruption to give IT training and certification a chance to come up with new angles, strategies. What is our "Lizard, Spock" you ask? I would say Badges, MOOCs, and more, but if you're wondering what they are, and how they apply to YOU, I'll need your help, and your vote.<br/><br/><a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://list.ly/list/2OV-tft13-18613?feature=trendingk" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Link to TFT13 Topics - My topic is: Rock, Paper, Scissors, Lizard, Who?</a><br/><br/>If you're interested in this, then follow the link just above — sign in (through LinkedIn or other), scroll down the list and find my topic. Most importantly, VOTE! To do this, you'll need to click the "up" arrow in the <strong>bottom left corner</strong> (and don't be confused by the number in the upper left — that's the "rank" of the topic).<br/><br/>Thanks for your help and attention!</p>