---
title: "Everyone likes disco"
date: 2013-05-09T04:05:26.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=4cfd622ddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961970"
---
<p>Not the polyester suites, I'm talking discovery.... Wherever you are at in the process with discovery, K13 has you covered. Pulled this from one of our disco gurus. Sign up accordingly and see you in Vegas!! <br /><br />Discovery 101 - Setting up discovery with Doug, Anders and 'Disco Stu' - This one is for the proverbial 'n00bs' :) , maybe you are going to be deploying in the near future and want to get a jump start or want to get a good feel on how discovery works this is the one for you. We won't be deploying a mid server as a group but will go through the process ....then into (as a group) setting up the components of discovery and deep explanation of all the moving parts. Will finish with a very simple process classifier and clustering a couple midservers...If you are an 'old hand' at discovery this is not for you..and If I see any of my friends out there, I will make you come up and teach it :) (j/k of course)<br /><br />Discovery 201 - Advanced Application Classification with Aleck and Ben (Discovery developers). Very cool lab that will get into advanced process classification and the new Application Profile Discovery.. If you are a newer or experienced Discovery admin this is one to goto .. If you don't have any experience with the application be sure to goto Discovery 101 first to get a lot of the basics out of the way so it all makes sense! The value return will be immeasurable!<br /><br />Discovery 301 - Custom probes, sensors and Identifiers! with Aleck and Ben (Discovery developers). Nice lab in creating new probes and sensors specifically around the SNMP space (which is the most common), it will provide good tools and practice in extending all Discovery capabilities. While 201 is not 'required', discovery 101 for the new friends out there would be a best start to understanding the material ..and again if you're 'old school' another great presentation to attend...<br /><br />Also don't forget about the CMDB workshop and Asset Management Labs (101/102).... after 'discovery' its time to do something with that data .. If you wear one of those all-in-one discovery/cmdb/asset hats its a full week of everything you need to do your job! I'll be at them all..Hope to see you there!</p>