---
title: " Reasons to Attend Ks Preconference Training"
date: 2013-05-10T01:20:32.000Z
authors: ["Andy Ho"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=b4fca2a5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961901"
---
<p>Why should you attend our <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="https://knowledge.service-now.com/k13/k13_preconference.do" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">pre-conference training</a> at Knowledge13?<br/><br/>Some of the reasons might include:<br/></p><ul><li>Networking with other fanatical ServiceNow gurus</li><li>Learning more about our product</li><li>Getting 2 more days to feast on the many Las Vegas buffets</li></ul><span> </span><br/><span>As I mentioned in the subject, I actually have 2654 reasons. As the company's "curriculum manager", I'm responsible for the offerings that we produce along with making sure they all follow writing standards and formats that result in high quality training materials. This year, with our 9 different offerings at pre-conference training, we have 2654 pages of content to help enable our customers leverage the power of Now. </span><br/><span> </span><br/><span>Last year's pre-conference training was our largest to date at roughly 400 attendees. We delivered a number of our existing courses at the time and received some very high scores in our surveys. This year we plan to build on that by offering the same core courses like System Administration and Discovery along with introducing 2 new offerings, Application Development and Orchestration (Runbook Automation). </span><a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="https://knowledge.service-now.com/k13/k13_preconference.do" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Click here</a><span> for the agenda and detailed course descriptions.</span><br/><span> </span><br/><span>For those of you who have been wanting to learn more about how to create your own applications in ServiceNow, the Application Development will be right up your alley. We will provide hands-on experience on how to create our award winning loaner equipment application. </span><i>NOTE: ALL of our courses in pre-con training will include hands-on labs.</i><span> The Orchestration course will help those of you who need to build automation into your processes to streamline tasks to produce fast, predictable results.</span><br/><span> </span><br/><span>If you are lucky enough to attend K13 this year, please consider taking one of the pre-conference sessions (they are heavily discounted from the regular price) and if you're brave enough, make it a point to introduce yourself to me!</span><br/><span> </span><br/><span>In the meantime, you can follow me on Twitter </span><a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="https://twitter.com/techtrainingtip" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">@techtrainingtip.</a><br/><span> </span><br/><span>Link to course descriptions: </span><a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="https://knowledge.service-now.com/k13/k13_preconference.do" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">https://knowledge.service-now.com/k13/k13_preconference.do</a>