---
title: "Dont forget to join the Rockies Live Feed at Knowledge "
date: 2013-05-13T23:32:56.000Z
authors: ["Steven.Taylor"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=e35e2eaddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96192e"
---
<p>Don't forget to sign into the K13 live feed and join the Rockies group!<br /><br />~Steve Taylor<br /><br />____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________<br /><br /><br />https://k13livepov.service-now.com/navpage.do<br /><br />Good morning.<br /><br /><br />We are just days away from Knowledge13! This year's event promises to be a "Transformational" event. We anticipate nearly 4,000 attendees at Knowledge13 and the sessions are guaranteed to be simply awesome! My name is Mike Brady, Director of Sales for the Rockies. Let me be the first to welcome you to Knowledge13 in Las Vegas, NV. As you prepare for your time at Knowledge13 and due to the sheer size of the group, the Rockies Region has developed an additional way of communicating with you. We will leverage our "Live Feed" capabilities from our platform to communicate, announce and share all of the happenings at Knowledge13. <br /><br />We will issue a login for each attendee in Rockies. We will also assign you to (2) groups. We have created a "Rockies" group as well as a group specific to your "ServiceNow Account Representative" for more specific communications. I encourage all of you to login, try it out and gain additional perspectives at Knowledge13. <br /><br />Please see the very brief instructions below.<br /><br />Login<br />Go to https://k13livepov.service-now.com/k13live <br />username: first.lastname<br />Password: password <br /><br />If you would like to post messages, manage your notifications or add text messaging see the attached instructions.<br /><br /><br />Again, welcome to Knowledge13 and thank you for joining us!<br /><br />Viva Las Vegas!<br />Mike <br /><br /><br /><br />Michael C. Brady | Director of Sales, Rockies<br />ServiceNow | The Enterprise IT Cloud Company<br />(m) 303-903-6564<br /><br /><br /><br />________________________________________<br /><br />Confidentiality Notice: This e-mail may contain confidential and privileged material for the sole use of the intended recipient(s). Any review, use, distribution or disclosure by others is strictly prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient (or authorized to receive from the recipient), please contact the sender by reply e-mail and delete all copies of the message.</p>