---
title: "Flextronics Expedites Employee Onboarding with Orchestration"
date: 2013-05-15T04:39:27.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=1f8c6ae1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961942"
---
<p>How do you avoid having workers sit around idle on their first day on the job? At Flextronics, a provider of electronics manufacturing services (EMS) with 200,000-plus employees at 3,000 sites in 30 countries on four continents, all that idle time adds up quickly.<br /><br />At the ServiceNow Knowledge13 user conference, Sergio Bernal, senior ServiceNow administrator at Flextronics, described how his company faced the problem of delays in onboarding. His team realized that all the time and footsteps required to fill out forms, request network access and obtain user IDs led to:<br /><br /><ul><li><b>Low scalability</b>: IT managed onboarding through email requests, with separate processes at each site. This meant managers first spent time wading through their inboxes, then having to approve and submit the request to IT.</li><li><b>Inconsistent policies</b>: Administrators at each site managed the creation of Active Directory (AD) accounts their own way. Seeing that the inconsistencies meant exposure in case of a SOX audit, the team realized that it would have to centralize account creation, with no manual intervention.</li><li><b>SLA problems</b>: It took about one day for IT to get around to creating a single AD account because of everything else they had on their plate.</li></ul><br /><br />Bernal's team reached a simple solution: Take the nagging activities and manual steps around onboarding away from the hiring manager and give them to the new employee.<br /><br />They used ServiceNow Orchestration to create a catalog form, which employees use on their first day. The form captures all the information necessary for a unique, SOX-compliant AD account and password, then uses JavaScript to route the onboarding request for the supervisor's approval. If already approved, the script routes the request straight to creation of the AD account. The hiring manager receives email notification that the account is ready.<br /><br />The script also takes advantage of ServiceNow's ability to run 64-bit commands on Exchange Server to create a unique mailbox directly on the server using Power Shell. JavaScript in the ServiceNow form goes to AD and ensures that the mailbox is unique in the entire enterprise.<br /><br />Among the results:<br /><ul><li>The onboarding process that used to take as much as a day now takes about 45 seconds.</li><li>The process now handles more than 5,000 accounts annually, with no manual intervention.</li><li>New employees no longer need to scramble for an IT person to grant access to shared folders and other resources that everybody else can reach.</li><li>Bernal's team built in flexibility to the workflow so that local administrators can modify it for local requirements.</li></ul><br /><br />Bernal estimates that the company's ROI has easily exceeded its costs. He points to three important takeaways from the implementation:<br /><ol><li>Use JavaScript to create smart forms to capture all the information needed to create a unique AD account.</li><li>Assume that each site will need some slight customization and allow for it.</li><li>Avoid all manual intervention</li></ol><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><p align="right">Contact Sergio.bernal@flextronics.com</p></p>