---
title: " Innovation of the Year Award FINALISTS"
date: 2013-05-14T09:10:43.000Z
authors: ["sarah.manning"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=362da6e5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619a5"
---
<p>This year, submissions more than doubled what we've ever had for the Innovation of the Year award. Over 45 organizations have developed innovative applications on the ServiceNow platform or leveraged ServiceNow in new ways to achieve positive business results. On Wednesday, May 15, <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="https://knowledge.servicenow.com/k13/k13_home.do" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Knowledge13</a> attendees chose the winner through a live voting process. Below are the five outstanding finalists. <br/><br/><strong>Sephora.</strong> Like any enterprise IT organization, Sephora IT is managing hundreds of projects at any given time. To better understand the project landscape, Sephora created a project portfolio dashboard on the ServiceNow platform that ranks IT projects by business unit and provides status information on each project. Now, Sephora uses the dashboard to improve executive decision-making and measure IT project success.<br/><br/><strong>Target Corporation.</strong> Target developed a walk-up appointment scheduling application using the ServiceNow platform. The custom app allows more than 20,000 Target team members to create an appointment and receive IT support in person. Now, Target support engineers are creating service requests with one click and resolving or escalating the issue in a single system of record.<br/><br/><strong>MetroPCS.</strong> Built on the ServiceNow platform in less than eight hours, the HR efficiency application at MetroPCS processes up to 10,000 personnel-related requests each year. The automated application significantly improves visibility into the volume of requests, increases internal collaboration within HR and provides accurate reporting and metrics.<br/><br/><strong>Tickets.com.</strong> To ensure that everything runs smoothly during high-demand event ticket sales, Tickets.com built a major event management application on the ServiceNow platform. Since rolling out the application, the company has reduced its labor cost by approximately 20 percent and improved their success rate to nearly 100 percent while continuing to remove complexity both internally and externally. <br/><br/><strong>GE Asset Management.</strong> To fulfill global hiring, transfer and off-boarding requirements, HR at GE Asset Management built a Human Resources on-boarding custom application in ServiceNow. Now, with the new application in place, GE Asset Management has successfully consolidated 3 systems into 1. Now, employee on-boarding, transfers and off-boarding are 100 percent automated, and time to complete a contractor request has been reduced from 15 minutes to just 2. The team has also reduced system maintenance from 84 hours a year to just 10.<br/><br/>Congratulations to this year's Innovation of the Year finalists. To view past finalists and winners, visit the <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://www.servicenow.com/innovation.do" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Innovation website</a> page.<br/><br/>To keep up to date on Knowledge13 and the Innovation of the Year award:<br/>- Track the latest Knowledge13 happenings and view keynotes at <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="https://knowledge.servicenow.com/k13/k13_home.do" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">knowledge.servicenow.com</a><br/>- Access press releases and other media resources from the <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://www.servicenow.com/press-releases.do" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">ServiceNow website</a><br/>- For continuous Knowledge13 news and event updates on Twitter, follow @ServiceNow and join the conversations using #Know13<br/>- Like ServiceNow on <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="https://www.facebook.com/servicenow?ref=hl" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Facebook</a> to view photos and updates from Knowledge13</p>