---
title: "What happens in Vegas stays in Vegas or maybe not"
date: 2013-05-10T01:21:21.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=ec6e6eaddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619be"
---
<p>Whilst it is true that <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="https://knowledge.service-now.com/k13/k13_home.do" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Know13</a> will provide you the ideal opportunity to network with your peers, have you ever wondered why at every year your peer's cannot wait for this unique <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="%20https://knowledge.service-now.com/k13/k13_preconference.do" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">learning experience</a> to commence? Any why is it that once you attend one of these events, you simply cannot miss out on the next? <br/> <br/>In about 2 weeks from today, the combination of instructor-led training, hands-on labs, user-led and vendor-led breakouts form a highly optimized learning colosseum for all attendees. This format is going to deliver meaningful time and cost savings for conference attendees and their companies. And more importantly, users return the following week with literally more....Knowledge. Such is the sharing and collaboration that goes on at these events, you simply cannot wait to get back and tell everyone of what you have learnt. As such, your knowledge is definitely <strong><span style="text-decoration: underline;">not</span></strong> going to stay in Vegas, you can bet your bottom dollar on that!<br/><br/>It is said that the letters LV have been found in the right pupil of the Mona Lisa and some believe it may be the signature of Leonardo da Vinci. Consider it being the very first advertisement campaign for Know13 Pre-Conference Training in Las Vegas perhaps? Maybe there's more to this than meets the eye? Well, you wouldn't know until you came to KNOW13 in Las Vegas I guess?<br/> <br/>Anyway, the odds of you coming to Vegas and enjoying the vast amount of knowledge our Instructors want to share with you, are particularly high. As such, ServiceNow, the Enterprise IT Cloud Company, is indeed the right place to turn to when it comes to understanding the Enterprise IT Cloud, and learning all about it. That's what your peers are doing after all, why get left behind I ask?. And if you are to enlist in any kind of training, then come and get it from the source: ServiceNow.<br/> <br/>By attending these Trainings, you will benefit by<br/></p><ul><li><strong>User adoption</strong> — achieved through our carefully developed training programmes starting with our System Administration and Scripting classes. You would want to attend these to start your journey into Servicenow with all the best practice our Instructors can share with you.</li><li><strong>Automating your Processes</strong> — achieved by building automation into your processes, whether that be a simple or complex multi-system task on remote servers and interacting with all types of infrastructure elements, such as applications, databases, and hardware.</li><li><strong>Developing Applications ROI</strong> — achieved by building applications in Servicenow that support any of your processes, however diverse they may be! And of course by building your own applications on the ServiceNow platform, you are driving Innovation and vision in your company.</li></ul><br/><span>Many of our customers are well on their way to achieving these by allowing themselves to indulge in our well constructed learning programs, you should surely be doing the same. </span><br/><span> </span><br/><span>Whilst many in Vegas will be enjoying the odd flutter here and there, I cannot think of a better way of enjoying your time in Vegas than by engaging with my super motivated team of trainers who I can </span><i>bet my house on</i><span> will extend your knowledge deep into the clouds. So if you see any of my Instructors leaving the building or at lunch sitting on their own, you are wasting a golden opportunity to tap into their brains and get those best practice scenarios out of them.</span><br/><span> </span><br/><span>If you would like to chat to me on the different Roadmaps we have based on roles, or future courses we are developing, or how wonderful you thought the Instructor was, please introduce yourself to me. I would love to hear your views and share our exciting future curricula with you!</span><br/><span> </span><br/><span>I can't wait for the learning to commence. See you at Know13!</span>