---
title: "Need a cure for that postKNOW hangover that you have"
date: 2013-05-23T04:56:00.000Z
authors: ["Andy Ho"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=7c6daa29dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96191f"
---
<p>No fear, Education Services is here!<p><br />As I mentioned in a previous post, we delivered another pre-conference training event at Knowledge with solid results. If you did not get to attend or did and are looking for more, then be sure to check out our current course schedule on our corporate site by clicking <a title="i.service-now.com/sys_report_display.do?sysparm_report_id=ac4af25987d328c09a1cb3aeef434d43" href="https://hi.service-now.com/sys_report_display.do?sysparm_report_id=ac4af25987d328c09a1cb3aeef434d43">here.</a> A dose of our training courses is certain to be a cure for that hangover you got from visiting Las Vegas!<br /><br />With our public facing curriculum, we try our best to deliver quality content that enables our customers and partners at the time they need it most. Our director, Jon Lloyd, has coined a phrase that captures this sentiment, "We seek to deliver the right training, at the right time, in the right modality". If you don't know what we mean by "modality", it's another word for the types of <strong>formats</strong> that we can deliver training. I explain it in more detail in this post: http://community.servicenow.com/blog/andyho/training-formats-explained<br /><br />Our traditional curriculum has catered to the "masses" whereby we offer public (and onsite) courses that cover a variety of topics from System Administration to Scripting to Discovery. One of our offerings, <strong>Process User Training</strong>, actually offers customized content and delivery for a customer's process user community. Customers receive training content that matches what has been implemented and configured for their users. Whereas our System Administration course is set up to teach the "mechanics" how to build the ServiceNow car, Process User Training is designed to teach your users how to drive the car once it's ready (at Go Live). It's one thing to build a fancy car but it's another to really know <strong>how to drive that car</strong>. What better way to teach your drivers how to drive than by giving them content that matches exactly what they are going to see in their instance?<br /><br />For more information on this program, visit this <a title="w.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,6ad6bf5a87662c40e4ab7b2d7d434d78" href="http://www.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,6ad6bf5a87662c40e4ab7b2d7d434d78">link</a><br />Or contact me at: <a title="dy.ho@servicenow.com" href="mailto:andy.ho@servicenow.com">andy.ho@servicenow.com</a></p></p>