---
title: "Sony Pictures Entertainment Consolidates Its Order Management System"
date: 2013-05-22T03:48:17.000Z
authors: ["sarah.manning"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=c10e6a2ddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96197a"
---
<p>Using four separate systems for order management was creating too much work for the IT Production Services (ITPS) group at Sony Pictures Entertainment. The team tracks software, licenses and hardware assets for three lines of business: motion pictures, TV and home entertainment. Over time, their IT landscape became fragmented among:<br /><br />-The customer order management system<br />-The asset recovery management system<br />-An outdated application for billing, fulfillment and reporting<br />-Spreadsheets.<br /><br />Melanie Hildebrandt, executive director of Corporate IT at <a title="w.sonypictures.com/" href="http://www.sonypictures.com/">Sony Pictures Entertainment</a>, explained during her session at Knowledge13 that continuing with the old system ran the risk of violating the group's 24-hour SLA to its customers. ITPS was ripe for a consolidated solution to help manage orders. To improve service delivery to their customers, they also needed a cloud-based service so that users on the move could take advantage without being tied to their computers.<br /><br />Hildebrandt's small project team comprised a project manager, a lead developer, implementation partner Cloud Sherpas, a data migration lead and two part-time testers. They implemented ServiceNow at each point in the order management process:<br /><br /><b>Order entry:</b> They turned three PDF forms into a catalog item that uses ServiceNow order guides to capture initial information on the user and the desired hardware/software configuration. They also used entitlement scripts to evaluate the current user and limit the information displayed.<br /><br /><b>Fulfillment:</b> The system includes workflow so that IT coordinators at their workbench can use ServiceNow as their to-do list for fulfillment (preparation, installation, delivery). <br /><br /><b>Printing:</b> Sustainability is important to Sony, so one of the goals of the implementation was to cut down on printed materials and approval forms. Using UI Pages and Jelly in ServiceNow, Sony reduced the number of printed forms to just shipping labels, delivery manifest and a send/receive form.<br /><br /><b>Inventory:</b> With SerciceNow, Sony can now break out all inventory by type - hardware, software, licenses - which helps the company with inventory management at all stages of the lifecycle. Managers can take advantage of at-a-glance graphics showing in-stock assets.<br /><br /><b>Billing:</b> ITPS integrated ServiceNow with SAP to bring financial data into the order management system. They loaded real-time SAP coding into ServiceNow, without mapping and conversion. An entitlement script in ServiceNow ensures that only appropriate users can see any billing data, and another script extracts report data to Excel as a pivot table.<br /><br /><b>Pickup and reclaim:</b> Production coordinators run a normal ServiceNow catalog item and choose items to send back when finished.<br /><br /><b><u>Hildebrandt believes the four biggest benefits of the implementation are:</u></b><br />-A consolidated, centralized platform<br />-A look and feel that business users genuinely like<br />-Mobile approvals from any device, and<br />-Improved reporting on inventory levels, customer information, fulfillment management.</p>