---
title: "Cardinal Health Sets the Foundation of Automation with the ServiceNow Service Automation Platform"
date: 2013-05-30T00:32:20.000Z
authors: ["sarah.manning"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=4f4da229dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961917"
---
<p>Aaron Zuber, manager of IT at Cardinal Health, spoke at Knowledge13 on how ServiceNow has helped automate compliance health dashboards for the company.<br /><br />Cardinal Health, "the Business behind HealthCare," is a leading provider of products and services across healthcare supply chain. With $108 billion revenue, the company delivers pharmaceuticals and medical supplies to 60,000 sites daily.<br /><br />As the company has grown — primarily through acquisition —system complexity has increased. Zuber's team began to apply Glass' Law, which states that "for every 25 percent increase of complexity in the problem space, there is 100 percent growth of complexity in the solution space." Cardinal Health found a way to apply Glass' Law using the ServiceNow Service Automation Platform.<br /><br />Zuber's team focused first on the enterprise architecture use case by surveying 107 total apps and asking for all information on those assets every year. They found that the process consumed 12 hours per app without environmental change, and 40 hours per app when an environmental change was required. Cardinal Health's discovery tools gave the team lots of information about relationships among network, database and infrastructure, but not about how applications were related.<br /><br />They knew they needed to simplify the process of building relationships between applications and underlying infrastructure, and stressed the idea of incremental progress vs. delayed perfection. "We knew we wouldn't hit all of our configuration item (CI) targets on the first try," Zuber said.<br /><br />By implementing ServiceNow, his team has managed to improve visibility and promote accountability. Cardinal Health has completed the foundational piece of automating compliance health dashboards, from which it guides technology refresh efforts throughout the enterprise. Product owners, for the first time, are able to view all of their application-level CIs and instantly see all related CIs, improving decision-making at the tactical, operational and strategic levels.<br /><br />Zuber's main takeaways are:<br /><br />- The key to consistent engagement is simplicity, and<br />- Incremental progress is preferable to delayed perfection.<br /><br />Automation can be daunting. But the right platform creates a foundation for success in automating processes across the entire organization.</p>