---
title: "FICO Rapidly Migrates from HP Service Manager Using ServiceNow StartNow Methodology"
date: 2013-06-03T21:26:53.000Z
authors: ["sarah.manning"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=4ebcea25dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619b8"
---
<p>Neal Laufenberg, manager of IT at FICO, spoke at Knowledge 13 on his company's success with the ServiceNow StartNow methodology for implementing ServiceNow. FICO is a predictive analytics company whose customers include 90 of the 100 largest U.S. financial institutions.<br /><br />Laufenberg began with a question to the audience: "You're leaving your old tool for a reason. Why waste time and effort trying to make your new solution look and feel like the old one?" <br /><br />FICO chose ServiceNow "to get out of the business of running a service management tool and get into the business of running service management." His team agreed that the switch from HP to ServiceNow could immediately solve:<br /><br />- Difficult upgrades — FICO had spent six months trying to upgrade its legacy software but never got it to work right again. <br />- Heavy costs — The ServiceNow model meant that FICO could get away from hardware maintainenance..<br />- Complicated to use — Straight out of the box with little customization, ServiceNow was easier for FICO users to work with.<br />- No flexibility — Even though they started with 98% out-of-the-box functionality with ServiceNow, FICO knew the platform was flexible enough to add more features later.<br /><br />Laufenberg engaged ServiceNow Professional Services to implement incident, problem, change and CMDB using the ServiceNow StartNow methodology. Among the most appealing features of StartNow were:<br /><br />- SCRUM — StartNow is based on the SCRUM software development framework — with daily stand-ups, sprints and stories — but was flexible enough to meet FICO's organizational needs.<br />- Project Management Plugin — StartNow provides a plugin FICO could load into its instance to capture key project requirements and activities — a good way to keep track of who did what when.<br />- Single Repository — StartNow can be used as a single system of record for tracking development activities and implementation history.<br /><br />One engagement manager and two full-time resources comprised the ServiceNow professional services team for FICO. Along with 2.5 full-time IT resources from FICO and user acceptance testing (UAT), the project was completed in less than three months. <br /><br />StartNow was a key element of the successful implementation. ServiceNow Professional Services consultants turned requests around in days, not weeks, resulting in the completion of all required items and selected process improvements. To close out the session, Laufenberg highlighted several lessons learned and recommendations to peers:<br /><br />- Purchase a custom statement of work. It will come in handy for applications outside of incident, problem, change and CMDB.<br />- Don't underestimate the amount of testing time required.<br />- Don't deploy a generic request item. Specify incident, task, request, problem, etc. and ensure users understand the difference.<br />- As much as possible, limit your implementation to what comes out of the box. It may be a new look and direction for your company, but you're leaving the old tool for a reason, so don't invest time and effort in trying to preserve the old way of doing things.<br />- Fit the StartNow methodology to your company's situation. Adjusting in mid-stream is always an option.</p>