---
title: "Santander Leverages the ServiceNow iPhone Interface for Better Asset Management"
date: 2013-06-11T01:44:46.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=9a2d66e5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619c1"
---
<p>Steve Bell, team lead for share services development at Santander Consumer USA, described his company's implementation of the ServiceNow Mobile Interface during his presentation at the ServiceNow Knowledge13 user conference.<br /><br />The heart of good asset management is being able to examine a hardware asset at its installed site and verify that it matches its CMDB configuration item (CI) record. The IT team at Santander Consumer USA, a multi-billion dollar financial services company, manages several hundred physical servers and a few thousand PCs. The core IT team was pleased with its implementation of ServiceNow Asset Management, but the shared services team still faced a bevy of manual verification work done mostly from laptops.<br /><br />Requirements for improvement were the abilities to:<br /><br />- Physically scan and find a record of the asset in ServiceNow using a handheld scanner (Wasp)<br />- Allow easy modifications directly into ServiceNow<br />- Implement a mobile solution compatible with the iPhone, the company's mobile device of choice.<br /><br />Besides an inventory of user assets, Bell's team faced a huge move of servers from one data center to another. His team decided to implement the ServiceNow iPhone interface as a complement to asset management. They designed a system in which the Wasp scans to the iPhone, which retrieves asset data from the CMDB via ServiceNow and populates the record in the mobile interface on the iPhone. <br /><br />"The scanner is a keyboard," says Bell. "Timing is important because the scanner sends a sequence of characters to the iPhone. If the timing isn't right, it's like typing it incorrectly. You won't retrieve the record."<br /><br />Bell's team modified the out-of-the-box mobile interface by creating a whole new app, including a link to new UI page, a new page for search and form views to display the results on the iPhone. Their implementation project comprised four simple phases:<br /><br />1) Program the scanner to communicate with the iPhone<br />2) Set up iPhone to pair to scanner<br />3) Test the system under a variety of scanning and network conditions<br />4) Pare down the Wasp documentation to a simple user guide.<br /><br />Now, with the mobile scanning solution in place, shared services can track and edit form factor, status, operational status, device name, assigned-to and location for every asset. This helps them find and immediately address discrepancies between their CMDB and the reality in the enterprise.<br />Bell mentions three key takeaways:<br /><br />- The iPhone does not do on-focus, so anybody conducting inventory must touch the desired field in the mobile app with finger before scanning each device.<br />- The app requires wifi connectivity to reach the server and return real-time data.<br />- Focus on getting the timing right between the scanner and the mobile device. They can communicate, but you may need to work at it.</p>