---
title: "Beyond IT Management to Logistics Transformation with CH Robinson"
date: 2013-06-18T04:20:25.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=6e6dea29dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619e9"
---
<p>C.H. Robinson is one of the world's largest third-party logistics providers, with more than 10,500 employees and gross revenues of more than $11 billion. Worldwide offices in North America, South America, Europe, Asia and Australia serve more than 42,000 customers.<br /><br />IT at C.H. Robinson initially implemented ServiceNow to consolidate a variety of IT tools that covered service request, incident, problem, change and knowledge management.<br /><br />Soon, C.H. Robinson's Solutions Engineers and Process Analysts saw that ServiceNow allowed development well beyond basic IT management. The entrepreneurial team began working on a set of customizations to expand C.H. Robinson's ServiceNow instance across all areas of the business — including their own business service management tool. <br /><br />Based on each branch office's needs, IT developed applications to help C.H. Robinson employees work better. Of the entrepreneurs she works with outside IT, Stacey Fournier-Thibodaux, General Manager, Global Service Management, says, "I want to help them implement their ideas, streamline their work, become more efficient and help the company make more money."<br /><br />Four years after the initial ServiceNow implementation, C.H. Robinson has built a workload management system that dramatically changes the way business runs. Company-wide for about 25 non-IT teams, C.H. Robinson has been able to replace email inboxes, distribution lists, and spreadsheets with ServiceNow — saving large amounts of time and energy. As a result, business users can quantify and report on their work, and the company can make better decisions based on accurate information. Plus, better reporting demonstrates business value that upper management can recognize. <br /><br />As Fournier-Thibodaux said, "Now it's hard to imagine what business groups would do if they didn't have these apps."<br /><br />To read the full case study, <a title="w.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,20288a4f87e001c093db7b2d7d434dfa" href="http://www.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,20288a4f87e001c093db7b2d7d434dfa">visit the customer success page</a>.</p>