---
title: "Project Governance Built from the Platform Up at South West Water"
date: 2013-06-24T21:12:33.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=c96eaeaddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619cf"
---
<p>South West Water's 1,300 employees are responsible for maintaining the drinking water, sewerage systems and bathing waters of South West England to the standards set by the UK and the European Union.<br /><br />IT at South West Water is responsible for enabling mobility for the workforce, adapting the ERP system to task field engineers and synchronizing information from the field with the servers. South West Water chose ServiceNow and implementation partner Focus Group Europe to support an IT transformation that involved adopting industry standards for project management and embracing ITIL. <br /><br />IT faced several reasons for change:<br /><u>Disparate processes</u> — A more integrated, coherent solution was needed to consolidate disparate processes.<br /><u>Reporting</u> — Managers needed more insight into the hundreds of IT projects in process at any one time. <br /><u>Portfolio governance</u> — Managers lacked adequate portfolio governance to see danger levels, location, costs and workflow. <br /><br />After choosing ServiceNow for its flexibility and speed to implement, the team at South West Water transformed IT in two phases. First, 8 weeks were spent standardizing processes to comply with ITIL. Next, Focus Group Europe helped develop a custom project governance application on ServiceNow. <br /><br />Results excited managers and executives across the business:<br /><u>Immediate visibility</u> — Managers and execs have insight into the progress of each project and can select, search and sort details — functionality that wasn't previously available.<br /><u>Standardization</u> — ServiceNow provides much-needed structure for IT and reinforces the newly established processes.<br /><u>Workflows</u> — These make project managers more accountable for tasks. They maintain a trail of document authorizations, and automated workflows have helped reduce errors and create valuable business results.<br /><br />The team is especially pleased with the workflows built in collaboration with Focus Group. Some have as many as 20-25 steps, and were developed from scratch with no additional tools. With the ability to communicate IT's successes to the business, the project governance application increases visibility and provides real value. <br /><br />To learn more about South West Water's success with ServiceNow, <a title="w.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,2015ca0f87e001c093db7b2d7d434da0" href="http://www.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,2015ca0f87e001c093db7b2d7d434da0">read the full case study</a>.</p>