---
title: "Two ServiceNow Customers are Named Finalists for itSMF Australia Project of the Year Award "
date: 2013-07-01T22:13:56.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=bd3daae5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619ac"
---
<p>This year, itSMF Australia received a record number of nominations for the premier IT Service Management Project of the Year award. <br /><br />Two ServiceNow customers—Asciano and Orica—are among four finalists chosen for the award. The ITSM Project of the Year is awarded to the organization that, in the judges' view, completed the most successful and/or challenging IT Service Management project. <br /><br /><b>Asciano Limited</b>, an Australian transport infrastructure and operations company, was nominated by ServiceNow for an IT services overhaul and ITIL implementation. The team had only four months to identify and implement critical process improvements, select and implement a new ITSM tool, and integrate the system and processes with Fujitsu's system and processes. <br /><br />The choice to replace its legacy ITSM tool with ServiceNow is described as "game-changing" and critical to success for Asciano. The team saw immediate benefits: <br /><br />•Automation in email-based service requests<br />•Increased customer satisfaction in Resolve vs. Close status of incidents<br />•Improved change management process and reporting<br /><br />As a result of its ServiceNow implementation and additional project work, Asciano overcame a diverse set of obstacles within IT, achieved remarkable visibility into IT performance as a basis for further service improvement, and leveraged ITIL to seamlessly link systems — paving the way for future innovation and overall return on investment.<br /><br />. . . . . .<br /><br /><b>Orica</b> is the largest provider of commercial explosives and blasting systems to the mining and infrastructure markets, the global leader in the provision of ground support in mining and tunneling, and the leading supplier of sodium cyanide for gold extraction. Orica was nominated by UXC for globalizing its service delivery. <br /><br />The project enabled Orica to transition from disparate, inconsistent processes (or no processes) to best-practice ITIL processes. As a result of its ServiceNow implementation, Orica was able to provide its staff with a new global Follow-the-Sun Service Desk supporting worldwide users 24 hours a day, 5 days a week.<br /><br />. . . . . .<br /><br />Two more ServiceNow customers were named finalists for the <b>Service Desk Team Project of the Year</b>: <br /><br />•Sydney University<br />•The University of Western Australia<br /><br />Winners for each award will be announced on August 8, 2013 at the 2013 itSMF Australia Conference Gala Dinner.<br /><br /><a title="w.itsmf.org.au/" href="http://www.itsmf.org.au/">Click here to learn more about itSMF Australia</a>, and read about the <a title="w.itsmf.org.au/awards/industryawards2013/" href="http://www.itsmf.org.au/awards/industryawards2013/">itSMF Industry Awards here</a>. <br /><br />Congratulations to the finalists!</p>