---
title: "The future of ITIL starts to appear enter AXELOS"
date: 2013-07-05T22:37:08.000Z
authors: ["stephenmann"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=90ecaa65dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619d1"
---
<p>Since the Capita ITIL* joint venture (JV) was announced in April 2013, NewCo (its name in the interim) has been in "listening-mode" seeking the opinions of the IT service management (ITSM) community as to the future direction of ITIL.</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p>Earlier this week Twitter (OK, the very small part of Twitter I "follow") was abuzz with the news that, as per an itSMF UK announcement, the Capita ITIL JV now has a name — AXELOS**. And yes it does appear as though it has to be in capitals!</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p>As part of the announcement, itSMF UK quoted AXELOS's new CEO, Peter Hepworth, as saying:</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><em>"Today is the first major milestone as we build towards becoming fully operational in January 2014. Over the next few months we will be in listening mode, working alongside product users, trainers and examiners to gather together their invaluable expertise. With thoughtful investment and innovative learning techniques, we are looking forward to developing this unique suite of management tools."</em></p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><strong>What's in a name?</strong></p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p>It's an interesting name, and one that I initially thought "What???" to. Thankfully smarter people were at hand and <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="https://twitter.com/itsmChris" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Chris Matchett</a> , the new Gartner ITSM analyst, pointed me at <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kostas_AXELOS" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Kostas Axelos</a> as a potential source of the name. Stealing a few lines from the Wikipedia link:</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><em>"Axelos argues, following Marx, that the opposition between work (necessity) and play (freedom) needs to be abolished, but recognizes that this would be both a concrete and ontological "world-play" (le jeu du monde) or errance."</em></p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p>If true, as I've seen nothing official yet, is it the shape of things to come? Capita acquired <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://www.g2g3.com/" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">G2G3</a>, "a human-centered technology company that combines creativity and innovation with technical know-how to create positive change for IT enterprises," shortly before the ITIL auction win was announced. Simulation and/or gamification is already a highly-probable part of ITIL's future.</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><strong>Looking beyond the name, a few initial thoughts …</strong></p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p>I have to admit to getting a little vocal on Twitter about the announcement. "This all seems harmless" would not be an unwarranted response from a more-rational person, so let me make a few observations along with hopefully being a little more sensible:</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><ul><li>It's odd that the itSMF UK "announced" this. Why didn't it come from Capita or AXELOS itself? And surely with it initially "coming" from the itSMF UK we continue the "British-ness" of what should be a global ITSM best practice framework (the .co.uk domain name it has registered doesn't help either but they might be looking to acquire the .com). However, having spoken to Martin Thompson of the <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://www.theitsmreview.com/" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">ITSM Review</a> later in the day on Tuesday, press email releases were sent out and it seems the itSMF UK were just the first to spread the word globally, i.e. on Twitter.</li><li>The name is an interesting one. There is much speculation about how G2G3 will be used to enhance the learning and change experience — most, if not all, of the larger ITSM tool vendors already use G2G3's products and services as sales and training tools. Thankfully, as a counter-balance to everything "gamified," an earlier announcement brought me great hope: <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://www.g2g3.com/news/news10.html" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">"G2G3 strengthens Americas team with appointment of Ian Clayton and Kenneth Gonzalez."</a> Ian and Ken are both well-known and well-respected in the ITSM community, particularly for USMBOK and bringing <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://blogs.forrester.com/stephen_mann/12-02-21-its_time_to_realize_that_itil_is_not_the_only_fruit" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">true service management thinking</a> to IT (whether you call it outside-in or something else).</li></ul><p><br/>The above quote also offers up a couple of personal "hmms" for me:<br/><br/></p><ul><li>There is talk that AXELOS is (still) in "listening mode" — it has been in listening mode since April — surely it has to be in at least a partial doing-mode now? Hopefully more news will quickly follow the name announcement.</li><li>It's interesting that AXELOS is in talks with "product users, trainers and examiners." IMO there are two issues here (and yes this does just seem to be an oversight): firstly it seemed to miss the fact that historically ITIL helped sell ITSM tools and ITSM tools have helped sell ITIL; and secondly ITSM tools are where the ITSM-rubber hits the road, i.e. the practical as opposed to the theoretical of ITSM. But it does just look like a press release faux pas.</li><li>I'll somewhat overlook the use of the phrase "unique suite of management tools" for now. But if ITIL is to be just a suite of tools how far have we come from ITIL just being a set of books? Again, I genuinely think that this is again most likely less-than-perfect wordsmanship in perhaps a hurried press release.</li></ul><p><br/>Re the above, I also have to declare that I'm probably personally-biased on at least two accounts (as well a being a somewhat of a drama queen):<br/><br/></p><ol><li>I've made a living from ITSM, and hence ITIL, for the last 11 years. What happens with ITIL affects me personally as well as professionally.</li><li>I work for an ITSM tool vendor.</li></ol><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p>Despite these observations I still hope for good, if not great things, of AXELOS and ITIL; I just want the pessimistic-optimist in me to see something that I can reach out and touch, feel the quality of, and know that it has been a job well done.</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><em><strong>As always your thoughts and comments are encouraged and appreciated.</strong><br/><br/>*ITIL is a framework of ITSM best practices, formally known as the IT Infrastructure Library.<br/><br/>** If you want to follow AXELOS on Twitter its handle is <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="https://twitter.com/AXELOS_GBP" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">@AXELOS_GBP</a> and its website is potentially AXELOS.co.uk (although nothing has appeared there yet).</em></p>