---
title: "MetroPCS Creates Custom Apps for Everyone"
date: 2013-07-01T22:26:05.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=5faca625dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619e4"
---
<p>MetroPCS used to run its business on outdated ITSM software that was so difficult, nobody wanted to use it — particularly the 86 IT staff members. Over time, several pain points emerged that inhibited synergy and created silos in work management across the company.<br /><br />•Difficulty managing workload — The variety of incoming IT requests was growing beyond capacity for the old system's functionality. Service quality and visibility were low. To make matters worse, day-to-day work in other departments was being managed through multiple disparate programs. Duplicate work became an issue. <br />•Poor reporting — Critical metrics could not be extracted from data stored in the old system. <br />•Lack of transparency — Interdependent business departments used applications that didn't talk to each other. Collaboration through phone calls and email was common, and the lack of synergy led to occasional scrambles.<br /><br />IT quickly implemented ServiceNow Incident, Change, CMDB, Service Catalog &amp; Request applications, then set to work developing about 15 completely custom, line-of-business applications on the ServiceNow platform. Among them were apps for Human Resources, Engineering, Network Operations, Legal and Outages.<br /><br />As a result, IT at MetroPCS has demonstrated critical business value across the entire organization. With real-time dashboards, users across the company can drill into data on their own. Manual processes have been automated to save great amounts of time. Now, the CIO trusts business-critical tasks to IT. When he urgently needed a way to track effort on a broad corporate initiative, IT developed a timekeeping application and rolled it out within 4 hours. <br /><br />Says Nicole Tate, Manager of Application Delivery and Support at MetroPCS, "ServiceNow is not just a SaaS solution for us; it's really a platform as a service. Now, 13 months in, we have almost all business areas on the platform, with their own applications automating some pretty complex processes."<br /><br />To read more, download the <a title="w.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,694355f66fe90d00dbd4ddef6f3ee431" href="http://www.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,694355f66fe90d00dbd4ddef6f3ee431">full MetroPCS case study</a> and read about <a title="w.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,5ce87e756f5181406e28e13f9f3ee451" href="http://www.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,5ce87e756f5181406e28e13f9f3ee451">ServiceNow App Creator</a>.</p>