---
title: "Kronos Transforms IT Through ServiceNow Project Management"
date: 2013-07-09T02:10:24.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=ca1e226ddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96198e"
---
<p>Kronos develops and markets workplace management software that helps organizations control labor costs, minimize compliance risk and improve workforce productivity. In order to develop business intelligence software, build data warehouse applications and implement new facilities in India, the company needed an IT service management solution with great functionality and breadth.<br /><br />Previously, Kronos IT managed global projects with Microsoft SharePoint and Microsoft Project, while simultaneously working on incidents, requests and other cases. To-do lists were high in number and visibility was low — it was difficult for IT leadership to see how many projects were going on at any given time. Plus, the disparity meant there was no single system of record. <br /><br />After the initial ServiceNow implementation at Kronos, IT integrated the workflow built in ServiceNow Project Management with ServiceNow Change Management. Coupling Project and Change resulted in a single workflow and a central station for managing all IT projects. <br /><br />Finally, IT at Kronos had what it was looking for:<br /><br />•<b>Consistency</b> — a consistent, identical workflow and task format irrespective of what generated a change.<br />•<b>Templates</b> — the team can rely on templates to ensure that all IT project plans contain the same universal milestones.<br />•<b>Consolidation</b> — all IT project work is consolidated across the enterprise. Resource management, task management, aging and workload distribution live in a single repository.<br />•<b>Beyond IT</b> — Project Management is used in architecture, application development, facilities and finance departments.<br /><br />Says Jeannine McConnell, senior director of IT at Kronos Inc., "That's when it became crystal-clear to me that the ServiceNow Project Management application was — and still is — the only way to manage our portfolio from now on." <br /><br />To read more, <a title="w.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,d1c3b0f06f310140dbd4ddef6f3ee4a4" href="http://www.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,d1c3b0f06f310140dbd4ddef6f3ee4a4">download the full Kronos case study</a>.</p>