---
title: "ServiceNow Acquires Mirror"
date: 2013-07-10T01:08:30.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=1cfc62a5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619a8"
---
<p>ServiceNow closed an agreement to acquire Mirror42, creator of a leading cloud-based performance analytics product. The acquisition accelerates our ability to deliver on enterprise requirements for advanced business intelligence including predictive analytics and time series analysis of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs).<br /> <br />ServiceNow Performance Analytics, formerly Mirror42 KPI Dashboard for ServiceNow, extends ServiceNow reporting capabilities and enables ServiceNow customers to easily create, define and measure KPIs for IT and enterprise service process optimization. ServiceNow customers receive access to more than 6500 crowd-sourced KPIs within the KPI Library — a community dedicated to the development and sharing of IT service management, IT operations and business function KPIs. Customers can also contribute KPIs to the community and benchmark their performance against other enterprises with similar industries and company sizes.<br /> <br />Implementation is simple and fast. ServiceNow Performance Analytics is a natively integrated application that can be accessed as a plug-in from customer instances. Install the plug-in, create or import KPIs and dashboards and scorecards come alive, instantly. Access the application through available iPhone, iPad and Android apps.<br /> <br />ServiceNow Performance Analytics is an example of the many innovative and complementary applications created by the ServiceNow ecosystem. We encourage our partner community to continue to develop and offer integrated applications that extend the analytic capabilities of ServiceNow to provide customers with a wide range of options for advancing their business.<br /><br />For more information, read the <a title="w.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,8aadb9586f6a45006e28e13f9f3ee431" href="http://www.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,8aadb9586f6a45006e28e13f9f3ee431">press release</a> or visit the ServiceNow Performance Analytics product <a title="rror42.com/product" href="http://mirror42.com/product">page</a> or product <a title="rror42.com/product/resources" href="http://mirror42.com/product/resources">demo</a>.</p>