---
title: "AXELOS courts public opinion on the future of ITIL"
date: 2013-07-11T18:08:53.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=016ceaa1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961945"
---
<p>This isn't really a blog, it's just my attempt to throw some transparency at the ongoing activities of AXELOS*, the company responsible for ITIL** going forward. I needed a place to share some information and here seemed as good as anywhere.<br/><br/>Remember I don't know everything, in fact I probably know very little, I'm just involved in a workshop next week and this is what I share below. It's one of many steps AXELOS will take as they move from "listening" to "doing".<br/><br/><strong>Next week's ITIL Opportunities Workshop</strong><br/><br/>It's probably easiest to quote Chris Barrett, Director for AXELOS, on this:<br/><br/><em>"One of the first steps on the route map is to explore the opportunities to improve the Best Management Practice Portfolio and to do this in a way that meets our quality, innovation and growth aspirations.<br/><br/> This workshop, the first in a series, aims to define the priorities for ITIL and PPM and to take the opportunities for improving them from social media discussion to defined tranches of activity for implementation.<br/><br/> We will run through the recommendations we've collated over weeks of listening. These form the basis of the agenda. We aim to explore each as an opportunity and agree a) the direction of travel and b) the best way to take each tranche of activity through to implementation.<br/><br/> On Thursday night success will look like:<br/></em></p><ul><li style="list-style: none;"><em><br/></em></li><li><em>Defined a common direction of travel (aka strategy)</em></li><li><em>A roadmap for each priority opportunity (which when rolled up will form a development programme plan).</em></li><li style="list-style: none;"><em><br/></em></li></ul><p><em>This is a marathon, not a sprint — but we are now at the start line."</em><br/><br/><strong>Who's invited?</strong><br/><br/>Hopefully (potential) attendees won't mind being named, nor Chris the sharing of his emails, and the list is subject to change to cater for additions and those that cannot attend. As of last Tuesday, the following people had been invited (not including AXELOS people): Stuart Rance, Barclay Rae, Andrea Kis, Sharon Taylor, Ivor MacFarlane, Robert Stroud, Colin Rudd (representing itSMF), Claire Agutter (representing the ATO Council), Jayne Groll (also representing the ATO Council), James Finister (TBC), Mark Sutherland (TBC), Patrick Bolger (evening only), and myself. Once this initial list was circulated I'm sure many attendees offered up suggestions of other potential attendees — I know I did.<br/><br/>To play devil's advocate, I'm sure many will see this as the "usual suspects" but there are a number of limitations such as: geographic availability at short notice, group sizing, and not knowing who the "unusual suspects" are. These are all probably people who have publicly expressed an interest in the future of ITIL; as well as generally being vocal in the IT service management (ITSM) community.<br/><br/>AXELOS will publish an up-to-date attendee list on Twitter. And, as Chris outlines below, there will be many other opportunities (I assume both physical and virtual) to input to the future of ITIL.<br/><br/><strong>But why is there a limited number and range of people attending?</strong><br/><br/>Again, probably best to quote Chris directly:<br/><em><br/></em></p><ol><li><em>"The workshops are designed to be a workable size — and not intended to exclude any individual or organisation</em></li><li><em>These are the opening workshops of a series of discussions that will get us to implementation — there's plenty of scope to include more people and organisations in the future, the stakeholder list is well understood</em></li><li><em>Specifically — Exam Institutes will not attend these sessions. Given the commercial sensitivity around the future operating model and the need to resolve and communicate that as a priority, we've decided to involve EIs once the outline target operating model has been communicated. EIs are absolutely central to the debates and we'll run a session with them to ensure their thinking is incorporated</em></li><li><em>Once again — this is a marathon and not a sprint."</em></li></ol><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><strong>So there you have it — it's good to see these things happening …</strong></p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p>… and while we might bemoan the "slowness" of transparency, cast your mind back over the last 20 years to see if you can remember any such transparency (along with breadth of consultation and participation) at all.</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><em><strong>As always your thoughts and comments are encouraged.</strong><br/><br/>* If you want to follow AXELOS on Twitter its handle is <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="https://twitter.com/AXELOS_GBP" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">@AXELOS_GBP</a> and its website is potentially AXELOS.co.uk (although nothing has appeared there yet).<br/><br/>** ITIL is a framework of ITSM best practices, formally known as the IT Infrastructure Library.</em></p>