---
title: " Days to Transform IT at Standard Life"
date: 2013-07-15T23:37:14.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=ae3deae5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96198d"
---
<p>Standard Life provides long-term savings and investments to approximately six million customers worldwide.<br /><br />As IT evolved at Standard Life, many separate systems for request fulfillment had been built; but none of the systems communicated with each other. Not only did IT lack automation between tools, but the legacy spread inhibited implementing an intuitive self-service interface. <br /><br />Finally, the lack of integration between all the tools meant that IT could improve processes only within the constraints of each individual system. For example, in employee onboarding, HR data could not be efficiently transferred into the separate system for requesting a laptop. Says Philip Murray, Standard Life process manager, "We'd fallen behind the company's expectations of what IT should be able to do."<br /><br />Murray's team was focused on searching for a new solution with end-to-end service, consolidation, a single point of entry for users and SaaS capabilities. ServiceNow offered just that — a fully integrated ITSM suite in the cloud. But for Standard Life, ServiceNow was more than a replacement. There was real potential to expand IT's functional capability.<br /><br />Focus Group, a ServiceNow partner in Europe, took Standard Life live with incident, problem and change in <b>just 50 days after project kickoff</b>. This was due to diligent preparation and workflow pre-design, plus training, skills transfer, user acceptance testing and system refinement. <br /><br />ServiceNow provided Standard Life with a single system of record that improved efficiency and provided intuitive self-service to users. <br /><br />Results have included:<br /><br />•Streamlined incident process<br />•Better positioning of IT within the business<br />•Business value across the enterprise<br />•25% improvement in observance of SLAs<br />•Replacement of homegrown database containing metrics on over 100 critical business services<br /><br />Looking ahead, ServiceNow has been named the platform of choice at Standard Life for a company-wide IT transformation initiative.<br /><br />To learn more, <a title="w.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,cec900f16f750100dbd4ddef6f3ee441" href="http://www.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,cec900f16f750100dbd4ddef6f3ee441">read the full Standard Life case study</a>.</p>