---
title: "The growing use of ITSM and ITIL outside of the IT organization and other statistics"
date: 2013-07-10T22:43:30.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=02dce665dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961972"
---
<p>Using IT service management (ITSM) tools outside of the IT organization has been an "economies-of-scale" option for "imaginative" companies for at least the last five years. HR, facilities management, and complaints management have been common opportunities to leverage existing ITSM tool investments, and maybe common processes, across business functions. With initiatives to consolidate multiple IT service/helps desks and the move to a shared services delivery model often the means.</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p>More recently the popularity of service catalogs, employee portals, and employee self-service/help have amplified the opportunities to standardize similar activities across multiple business functions. Often driven by the need to improve services AND to reduce costs — a common goal for many CIOs (and one would assume other-business-function C-level executives). While it wasn't something I saw much of during my time as an IT industry analyst, <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://uk.linkedin.com/in/jamesfinister" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">James Finister</a> — the European SIAM (Service Integration and Management) Lead at TCS — is currently seeing large-customer interest in the use of ITIL, the ITSM best practice framework, as well as ITSM tooling outside of the IT organization.</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p>A high profile (but unrelated) customer example is <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://www.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,5dbcac4bff578040d4d9f62c297efe65" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">CERN</a>, which has taken the IT out of ITSM to apply service management best practices to waste, fire services, people, transport, and green space management.</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><strong>And so to the statistics…</strong></p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="https://www.kpmg.com/US/en/about/alliances/Pages/servicenow.aspx" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">KPMG</a>, a global business services firm, surveyed over 275 attendees at ServiceNow's Knowledge 13 customer event in May 2013. The full set of results and KPMG commentary are <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://www.kpmginfo.com/NDPPS/eSolutions/187084_K13Results/index.html" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">here</a> but please read on for a quick run through some stats.</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p>The headline stat is that <strong>87% of survey respondents already leverage the ServiceNow platform for non-ITSM applications</strong>; quoting KPMG these include: <em>"service management requirements in other business areas, among them human resources, accounts payable (finance), and research and development."</em><br/> <br/>While the platform-as-a-service (PaaS) capabilities of ServiceNow offer up many potentially different scenarios to the traditional "fitting" of ITSM tools to non-IT service management needs (leveraging ticketing, service catalog, self-service, workflow and approval, automation, knowledge management etc.), it's indicative of the growing opportunity to leverage the functional and platform capabilities of an ITSM tool beyond ITSM and the IT organization. Whether viewed through a shared services lens or not, using standardized best practices and enabling tools for request management, case-management, customer service, etc. is on the rise.</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><strong>IT costs and control were also high on IT organization agendas...</strong></p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p>Two other statistics stood out:</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><ol><li>IT asset management/software asset management: "Nearly half of respondents (47%) said they are using an IT asset management tool to manage corporate hardware and/or software assets." For nearly half of these the IT asset management tool was ServiceNow.</li><li>Governance, risk, and compliance (GRC): "Nearly three quarters of survey participants (73%) indicated their IT organizations are considering leveraging IT governance, risk management and compliance applications."</li></ol><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><strong>So a common theme:</strong> </p><p>Whether it be the ITSM tool or technology per se, ServiceNow clients are looking at numerous ways to achieve better returns (or value) from their IT investments. <br/>Is this indicative of your organization? How high up is this need on your priorities list? And what are you doing to maintain or even improve services while also reducing costs?</p><p><br/>Or have you mastered the ability to demonstrate the business value of your IT investments — and in the fortunate position of being asked to spend more on IT in the pursuit of greater business success?</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><em><strong>As always, your thoughts and comments are encouraged.</strong></em></p>