---
title: " of organizations use SaaS ITSM tools and other statistics from Navvias annual ITSM survey"
date: 2013-07-26T22:05:52.000Z
authors: ["stephenmann"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=460deaa5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961919"
---
<p>Yesterday <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://navvia.com/" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Navvia</a>, a provider of online tools for process design and improvement, delivered the results of its eighth annual IT service management (ITSM) survey. If you wish to watch the webcast on demand it's <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://navvia.com/library/" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">here</a></p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://ca.linkedin.com/pub/david-mainville/4/155/669/" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">David Mainville</a>, CEO and co-founder of Navvia, pointed to a number of hot topics before delivering the statistical results:</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><ul><li>Service management offices, like a PMO (project management office) but for ITSM, are beginning to appear.</li><li>SaaS ITSM tool acceptance continues to grow.</li><li>Service asset and configuration management (SACM) and IT asset management are hot areas.</li><li>Organizations are looking to move beyond incident, problem, and change management; with SACM, service request, service catalog, and release and deployment leading the way.</li><li>Governance and continual improvement remains weak.</li></ul><p><br/>For some of the headline stats, please read on. To make it easier to digest I've split them into people, process, and technology groups — but there are also stats related to training, ITIL, and governance mixed in.<br/><br/><strong>People</strong></p><ul><li>69% of respondents have VP level or higher support for their ITSM program.</li><li>70% of respondents have dedicated ITSM resources.</li><li>56% of respondents have full-time ITSM resources.</li><li>7% of respondents have no resource dedicated to ITSM.</li><li>51% of respondent organizations have a formal ITSM training program.</li></ul><p><br/><strong>Processes</strong></p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><ul><li>48% of the webinar attendees and 49% of the survey respondents have conducted an ITSM maturity assessment in the last 18 months.</li><li>93% of the respondents who conducted an ITSM assessment (in the last 18 months) found it to be of value.</li><li>Only 57% of respondents have a documented ITSM roadmap.</li><li>93% of webinar attendees are using #ITIL v3.</li><li>92% of respondents are using #ITIL v3 - up from 84% last year.</li><li>ITIL v2 use accounted for 5%.</li><li>Only 29% of respondents have implemented and enforce governance processes.</li><li>18% of respondents have no metrics, only 30% have actionable metrics, i.e. they use them for something beyond performance measurement.</li></ul><p><br/><strong>Technology</strong></p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><ul><li>67% of webinar attendees are using or investigating SaaS tools for ITSM.</li><li>65% of respondents are using or investigating SaaS tools for ITSM, 36% are using a SaaS ITSM tool.</li><li>38% of respondents have a CMDB.</li><li>41% of respondents have implemented a service catalog tool; 37% are planning or currently implementing one.</li><li>65% of respondents have or are planning auto-discovery tools.</li></ul><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><strong>Some thoughts …</strong></p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p>Firstly these are great stats to make you consider where your organization is and potentially should be. What I personally found interesting was how closely the in-webinar poll results matched the formal survey.</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p>It's also great to see respondents wanting to move beyond incident, problem, and change management; with the potential areas for improvement in line with what we've been seeing. In some ways one could argue that this is driven by a common goal for CIOs — to improve service quality whilst at the same time reducing costs.</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p>On the downside the lack of governance and continual improvement is almost to be expected given the focus on the more reactive ITIL processes. But additionally it is interesting that 92% of respondents are using ITIL v3 — the cynical part of me, and it's quite a sizable part, wonders if this really is ITIL v2, plus some ITIL v3 training, and maybe the purchase of a service catalog tool. If there was the adoption of the lifecycle approach espoused by ITIL v3 (or 2011 as it is now) surely we would have already seen more use of the processes outside of incident, problem, and change management.</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><strong>As always your thoughts and feedback are encouraged.</strong></p>