---
title: "Custom App Express at Associated Wholesale Grocers"
date: 2013-07-22T23:52:24.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=758d6669dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619d1"
---
<p>Associated Wholesale Grocers (AWG) is an 86-year old retailer-owned grocery cooperative with annual sales of $7.85 billion.<br /><br />AWG did not have custom apps in mind when it implemented ServiceNow. Previously, the internal team regularly developed applications using Lotus Notes. But as needs changed within IT and the business, and the team began moving away from Lotus Notes, having the ServiceNow platform already in place proved invaluable. <br /><br />With the ServiceNow Service Automation platform, IT at AWG helped solve a multitude of business problems:<br /><br />-Before, the desktop support team used spreadsheets to track equipment requests against POs. Now, a custom application built on ServiceNow automates the process.<br />-IT created an incentive-based application to help move users away from PCs and towards thin clients.<br />-To manage expectations with the newly centralized project management team, IT wrote a custom application for resource request and allocation.<br /><br />For Max Vorhies, senior manager of IT at AWG, ServiceNow is fast and easy to use. "We built a custom application that does what we need, integrates with our other applications and took us only about an hour to create. And, it doesn't require any hardware or infrastructure."<br /><br />AWG measures the value of custom apps by speed to market — how little time it takes for them to build a custom application and roll it out to users.<br /><br />"In general, we get tremendous value from ServiceNow in transparency. For instance, over a three-month period, I've seen 96 percent reduction in time to resolve issues. With ServiceNow, we can easily convey savings like that to the CIO, along with an overview of what users demand and what IT provides. That kind of transparency gives IT a better seat at the table," said Vorhies.<br /><br />For more details, watch "<a title="w.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,032b0b9e87044580a098183a2d434d03" href="http://www.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,032b0b9e87044580a098183a2d434d03">Firm Foundations - Picking the Best Platform for Custom Enterprise Apps</a>", a webinar with ServiceNow and Associated Wholesale Grocers.</p>