---
title: "Time to get User Groups OFFICIALLY kicked off in IowaNebraska"
date: 2013-07-24T10:11:16.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=d59daa69dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619d1"
---
<p>The purpose of this user group is to provide a regular forum for ServiceNow users and prospective customers to share experiences and knowledge. The user group is financially independent and run by a volunteer group of ServiceNow customers. <br /><br />The user group is an excellent and inexpensive way to receive technical content, company news, new ServiceNow capabilities and to meet with your peers and other ServiceNow experts.....why should we get people to attend and get this community kicked off? <br /><br />* Discover breakthrough innovations and deployment strategies <br />* Hear about the newest release of ServiceNow <br />* Hear how other companies are using ServiceNow <br />* Discuss active ITIL and ServiceNow topics <br />* Help and advice from other customers <br />* Engage with ServiceNow with a bigger voice<br />* Meet like minded professionals within Iowa/Nebraska<br />* Engage with ServiceNow IT partners and learn skillsets and capabilities <br />* Deep dive into enhanced analytics with Mirror 42 in ServiceNow <br /><br />I'd like to get this started and on the calendar so we can start planning. I know someone will need to see if we can volunteer space to hold enough people and help drive the agenda from the community on what specifically we'd like to talk about. I'd like to rotate these between Des Moines / Omaha every other quarter until the community continues growth in both geographies. <br /><br />Any ideas? <br /><br />Curtis Hayworth <br />Sr. Account Executive <br />(402) 850-5050</p>