---
title: "Welcome"
date: 2013-07-25T02:28:25.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=66ad26a9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619ad"
---
<p>Hello, and welcome to my new Service-Now Customer Blog! My name is Steven Bell and I work for Santander Consumer USA, Inc. In this blog I will be posting technical problems that I have encountered and the solutions that I used to resolve them, as well as coding techniques and best practices. I hope you will find the code and tips useful.<br /><br />As a customer we were an early adopter, December 2007, and until late 2011 we used Service-Now mainly as an ITIL product. Starting in December 2011 our company began putting resources into expanding the number of Service-Now Applications and specializing them to our needs. That was the beginning of my involvement as lead architect and developer with the Service-Now platform. <br /><br />As for myself, I have 30+ years in the development industry and have worked with a variety of languages and platforms. Prior to developing in Service-Now I spent over eight years developing in .Net, C#, SQL Server, and the creation of .Net webservices. For the last year-and-a-half I have been applying my experience toward creating applications and solutions in Service-Now. I am a member of the North Texas Service-Now User's Group, and presented in April on a new application we had written for staging large numbers of assets prior to moving them to CMDB_CI. Recently I presented at Knowledge 13 on a mobile application for scanning asset bar-codes for look up in CMDB_CI.<br /><br />Thanks!</p>