---
title: "Progressive IT Proves Valuable in Pork Production"
date: 2013-07-30T01:02:31.000Z
authors: ["sarah.manning"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=7e4e66addbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961971"
---
<p>The Maschhoffs is the largest privately-held pork producer in the United States, serving more than 10 million consumers a year. In 20 years, the company has grown from 50 to over 1,100 direct employees. To keep up with rapid growth and acquisitions, three big changes were needed in IT: <br /><br />•Better clarity and smoother processes <br />•Faster incident resolution<br />•The ability to be proactive.<br /><br />The Maschhoffs implemented ServiceNow to advance the company's maturity in IT and improve service delivery. As a result, nearly 80% of the first 1,000 incidents received each month are now resolved quickly as first calls. These improvements are not unknown to other areas of the business, and due to the flexibility of the ServiceNow platform, IT has been able to improve processes elsewhere.<br /><br />"In IT, we've been able to work with more clarity," says Segelhorst. "And now, our co-workers outside of IT see the gains we've made in efficiency and responsiveness, and they want the same for processes in their parts of the business as well."<br /><br />For example, The Maschhoffs' Veterinary Services division has expressed interest in using ServiceNow to automate its own processes. IT believes this will work well due to the similarities in several important functions:<br /><br />•A small team distributes services to many users inside and outside the company<br />•Veterinary Services functions as a type of service desk for animal care needs<br />•A single system of record would aid with sharing of knowledge and data among veterinary staff members.<br /><br />"In IT, we measure business value not with statistics on server uptime, but with the services we can provide to the organization," Segelhorst says. "When we can sit down with a department like Veterinary Services or HR or Facilities, look at the tools they're using and help them see a path to greater efficiency through a platform like ServiceNow, then we're generating real business value."<br /><br />For more details on The Maschhoffs' use of ServiceNow, <a title="w.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,7cea38448790098093db7b2d7d434dce" href="http://www.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,7cea38448790098093db7b2d7d434dce">read the full case study</a>.</p>