---
title: "Informa plc Global Consolidation for Remarkable IT Results"
date: 2013-08-05T21:17:04.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=ad5e6aaddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961924"
---
<p>Informa plc. provides academic, professional and commercial information to customers around the world. Its 9,000 employees work in 150 offices in more than 30 countries, and IT Service Management is overseen from one of the UK offices.<br /><br />In the process of evolving from a typical support organization into a service provider organization, Informa IT sought to simplify and standardize processes across applications, systems and development teams worldwide. <br /><br />IT at Informa was challenged with a complex business structure made up of businesses that have acquired other businesses, all with different ideas, processes and ways of doing things. With even more growth on the horizon, Informa needed to: <br /><ul><li>Consolidate tool sets across 20+ processes while reducing complexity and costs</li><li>Enable enough customization for each business to deliver quality work while adhering to core standards</li><li>Onboard employees and assimilate new businesses quickly and efficiently</li></ul><br />Informa selected ServiceNow and as the platform's flexibility and workflow capabilities came into view, IT rolled out new functionality to the policy management, vendor management, asset management, CMDB, change management, facilities management, capital expense approval, and project &amp; portfolio management teams. The amount that Informa has been able to extend ServiceNow outside of IT validates and amplifies its daily contributions to the business. <br /><br />Overall, Informa IT has seen great gains in consolidation, flexibility and validation as a result of its ServiceNow implementation. <br /><br />Now, more than 65% of Informa's 9,000 employees use ServiceNow every day. ServiceNow has gained buy-in so quickly that after 18 months, the number of licenses Informa purchased for business partners had grown higher than the number for central IT. <br /><br />"Our business partners now own more ServiceNow licenses than central IT does, which means that we're no longer selling them on the tool. They're buying it because it works for them," said Paul Hardy, Director of ITSM at Informa plc.<br /><br />To find out more about Informa's use of ServiceNow, <a title="w.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,1170b8310a0a3cc8005c497ceea4e60f" href="http://www.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,1170b8310a0a3cc8005c497ceea4e60f">read the full case study.</a></p>