---
title: "Agropurs CMDBFirst Approach to Consolidate IT"
date: 2013-08-12T22:19:57.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=9bcda2e9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619e4"
---
<p>More than 3,000 Canadian dairy farmers rely on Agropur cooperative to collect, process and distribute milk and milk products countrywide. Agropur products generate more than CDN$3.6 billion annually, and the cooperative employs 5,700 people in Canada and the USA. <br /><br />After years of using disparate Lotus Notes apps to manage IT, Agropur selected ServiceNow to consolidate and modernize IT operations. In practice, most organizations implement Incident, Change, and other (IT service management) ITSM applications first. But because CMDB is a central element of ITIL guidelines, Agropur decided to start from the center and build outward.<br /><br />According to Michael Glenn, director of architecture at Agropur, "Starting off with CMDB has made other projects easier because we have a perfect view of the system, its components and their relationships. We used to have to start every project from scratch."<br /><br />Along with creating a clear and improved path to implement ServiceNow Change, Incident and Knowledge Base applications, Agropur's CMDB will help with future plans for consolidation, Service Catalog &amp; Request Management, and Project Management. <br /><br />Plus, Agropur has gained unexpected business value from the unique implementation: teams that used to work in parallel now collaborate more and solve problems much more quickly. <br /><br /><a title="w.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,fbe8b4048790098093db7b2d7d434d26" href="http://www.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,fbe8b4048790098093db7b2d7d434d26">Read the full case study</a> to learn more about the steps Agropur took in implementing ServiceNow CMDB first.</p>