---
title: "Four ServiceNow Customers Named to the  CIO "
date: 2013-08-12T21:59:24.000Z
authors: ["sarah.manning"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=a6bdeaa9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96195b"
---
<p>The 2013 CIO 100 Awards honor 100 companies that exemplify the strategic partnership of IT and business. <br /><br />Four ServiceNow customers — Red Hat, CareFusion, Qualcomm and Land O'Lakes — were among this year's winners. <a title="w.cio.com/cio100/2013/1" href="http://www.cio.com/cio100/2013/1">See the official winner chart</a> to read each company's winning entry. <br /><br />IT leaders from Red Hat, CareFusion, Qualcomm and Land O'Lakes will support ServiceNow in hosting a panel session on August 12 at this year's CIO 100 event in Colorado Springs, CO. <br /><br />Here are the details:<br /><br /><b>August 12, 2013</b> from <b>2:35 — 3:05 pm</b> (1:35 — 2:05 pm PST) in <b>Hall D.</b><br /><br /><u>Accelerating Global IT Transformation: A Practitioners' Leadership Forum</u><br /><br />Join an experienced lineup of IT leaders as they delve into the specifics of their strategies for driving global IT transformation. CIO Norm Fjeldheim of Qualcomm, CIO Lee Congdon of Red Hat, Joseph DiPrima, VP of IT at CareFusion, and Michael Macrie, VP of IT at Land O'Lakes will talk about how they standardized and globalized IT in their diverse organizations. They'll also share their perspectives on using cloud technologies and providers to accelerate transformation, and their thoughts about the expanding role of IT and the importance of a service-oriented culture. Attend this session to hear directly how some of your peers were able to radically revamp IT's reputation from the "Department of No" to the "Department of Now.<br /><br />ServiceNow will also have a booth at the event. We hope to see you there.<br /><br />Congratulations to our customers on their prestigious achievement!</p>