---
title: "SNUG Update and NowForum"
date: 2013-08-19T17:27:01.000Z
authors: ["Shane Parsons"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=ca2d66e5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96198f"
---
<p>Dear fellow SNUG members, <br /><br />I hope you are all well and have either returned to the office refreshed from a relaxing summer break, are currently enjoying the unexpected good summer we've had or are looking forward to a well-deserved holiday in the near future. <br /><br />I just wanted to take this opportunity to bring you up to date with our plans with regards to the next SNUG, following the recent announcement from ServiceNow regarding the NowForum events being held in early October. <br /><br />As you may recall, at the last event, kindly hosted by Fujitsu in June, we stated that the next SNUG would take place in October. Since the announcement of the UK NowForum ( in London on October 10th), the SNUG Organising team has decided that our next event will be rescheduled instead for late November. <br />•A date has still to be agreed and further details will be forwarded when plans are firmed up.<br /><br />This will give the benefit of allowing the UK SNUG to give consideration of the NowForum event and provide feedback as part of our discussions. It also means that attendees will not be required to take two days out of the office for ServiceNow user related activities in a very short space of time. <br /><br />I would encourage you to attend the NowForum if possible. This type of event has been actively requested by SNUG members for a while and we hope to be working with ServiceNow for the UK SNUG to have a presence on the day. <br /><br />Best Regards,<br />Shane</p>