---
title: "Global Investment Bank Transforms HR through IT Service Automation"
date: 2013-08-28T03:12:40.000Z
authors: ["sarah.manning"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=73ace625dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961967"
---
<p>A global investment bank with approximately 65,000 employees and offices in more than 50 countries draws on substantial heritage to serve private, institutional, corporate and retail clients worldwide. <br /><br />Upon recognizing a number of inefficiencies in the processes they used to support all types of HR requests, the firm approached Innovise ESM to implement a new program that would address their needs.<br /><br />The firm was looking to:<br /><br />•Streamline and standardize global and regional HR processes<br />•Improve user experience<br />•Reduce manual processes<br />•Introduce service visibility and reporting functionality.<br /><br />The firm selected ServiceNow to replace a legacy Pegasystems solution. ServiceNow had the flexibility and speed of deployment that were needed to achieve the firm's goals. <br /><br />ServiceNow's wide-ranging functionality, ease of use, integration capability and close alignment to service management best practices made it an ideal strategic platform. Implementation took 7 months including testing and user training.<br /><br />With ServiceNow, the firm enabled a service management operating model for HR and built a custom HR Case Management application for seven interfaces: Security, Telephony, Document Management, Document Creation, Reference Management, Business Objects and HR suite. <br /><br />The firm has seen numerous benefits as a result of its ServiceNow implementation:<br /><br />•Online facilities for services currently provided by HR managers <br />•Increased availability through online capabilities with faster and easier access to HR knowledge and support<br />•Reduced cost base <br />•Increased customer satisfaction<br />•Electronic storage for confidential documents<br />•Tracking for operations and workflows<br />•Self-service for users.<br /><br />"ServiceNow has greatly improved how we serve our internal clients. I look forward to continue working with you as we transform HR and its technology." — Director of HR IT, Global Investment Bank<br /><br />To find out more, <a title="w.servicenow.com/sys_attachment.do?sys_id=b1037a486f274500b90eddef6f3ee4ac" href="http://www.servicenow.com/sys_attachment.do?sys_id=b1037a486f274500b90eddef6f3ee4ac">read the full case study</a>.</p>