---
title: "Putting the Indicator back in KPI"
date: 2013-08-22T23:59:13.000Z
authors: ["bradley.owen"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=c2edaee9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961938"
---
<p>I like to ride my bicycle. In fact, I like to ride it well. I use an app on my iPhone called <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://www.strava.com" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Strava</a> to track how well I ride it. Using the magic of GPS, I can compare my times on certain stretches of road with all other Strava users. I am proud to say I am now the <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://www.strava.com/segments/4951820" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">385th fastest of 1,016 riders on Kearny Villa Road</a>.<br/><br/>In sports, we keep score. We love to keep stats. I had a friend in college who could quote any SF Giant's player stats from almost any year. RBIs, HRs, <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://mlb.si.com/2013/04/18/gallardos-dui-raises-issue-of-how-mlb-should-handle-these-matters/" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">DUIs</a>.<br/><br/>But not all stats are equal. Not all baseball players are created equal. My son had a batting average that exceeded every MLB player in 2006. Every at bat he got a hit. I don't mean to brag, but that translates to a perfect 1.000 average.<br/><br/>Did I mention he was playing t-ball?<br/><br/>In business, we keep KPIs. We love to keep stats. How many open incidents are we tracking? How fast can we release software? How satisfied are our customers?<br/><br/>I was on a call today with several large, multi-national corporate IT leaders discussing software release schedules- as long as 5 months and as short as 2 weeks. Philosophies are different when it comes to how you release software - many small releases like Google or few releases with very long windows like... Windows. That makes it hard to compare Apples to Chromebooks.<br/><br/><strong>KPIs</strong> are <strong>Key</strong> to understanding how we are <strong>Performing</strong>, but are only <strong>Indicators</strong> and must be considered carefully and in context. I can't beat myself up because there are 384 riders faster than me, or take great pride that I am faster than 631. But for riders over 40 in my weight class who are men, I would have some better sense of how I am performing relative to my peers (if I ever buy the pro version of Strava).   Not sure they are all working full time or have 4 kids.   I probably don't log as many hours in the saddle as maybe 300 of those faster riders. But the last time I rode Kearny Villa Road was the fastest I have ever ridden it. But then again, it was a windy day, blowing my way.<br/><br/>KPIs can help us set new goals based on what we have done to date. But they only <strong>Indicate</strong> performance. They tell the truth, but not the whole truth.   For this reason, many put confidence intervals on metrics (think <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Control_chart" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Process Control Charts</a>).   That is a good practice.   But others get bent out of shape if there are 101 open incidents on any given day.<br/><br/>I admit that measuring past performance can have a very large impact on future performance - I would really like to crack the top 100 on Kearny Villa Road.   That would be great performance for me.   While I realize I am unlikely to be the fastest, I can still Strava for a <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://running.about.com/od/faqsforbeginners/f/personalrecord.htm" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">PR</a>.</p>