---
title: "Deakin University Transitions from Old Limiting Tool to ServiceEnabling Software"
date: 2013-08-19T20:54:40.000Z
authors: ["sarah.manning"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=b4ccee25dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619d3"
---
<p>Deakin is the ninth-largest university in Australia, with over 42,000 students and 8,000 faculty and staff. <br /><br />Deakin had migrated from HP Service Desk to HP Service Manager to manage IT, but soon found that the new system was impeding the department's progress towards better service delivery. <br /><br />For example, after filling each field in the application with information from the user, service agents had to wait 30-60 seconds for Service Manager to accept the data and move onto the next screen. In addition, IT experienced poor reporting, lack of automation, and inability to extract adequate detail from a lackluster incident database. Internal users and end customers were frustrated.<br /><br />Deakin selected ServiceNow after seeing a number of demos with reference customers. According to Ashley Smith, UNIX team leader, nobody could find a reason to say 'no' to ServiceNow. Deakin worked with Keystone Management Systems to implement the platform in a simplified manner that "made life easy."<br /><br />As a result of its ServiceNow implementation, Deakin IT boasts an improvement in software and service performance, data quality, and SLA maintenance. The time it takes to manage incidents and requests decreased by 33%, and calls that would have breached SLAs decreased from 5% to less than 1%. IT is more accountable and visible to leadership, and as a result, its role within the business is changing. <br /><br />"We consider our implementation of ServiceNow transformational because our software no longer limits us," said Craig Warren, operation service provision manager. "It enables us."<br /><br />For the rest of the story, <a title="w.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,60bec82b6f860500391fe13f9f3ee4ab" href="http://www.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,60bec82b6f860500391fe13f9f3ee4ab">read the full Deakin case study</a>.</p>