---
title: "Parks Victoria A Natural Approach to IT Service Automation"
date: 2013-09-04T02:34:31.000Z
authors: ["sarah.manning"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=fdbd6aa9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619ea"
---
<p>Parks Victoria works on the ground to protect and enhance park values of over 10 million acres in Victoria, Australia. As part of a larger IT transformation, Parks Victoria is leveraging ServiceNow to manage more than 25,000 technical and recreational assets including ports, waterways and emergency services. <br /><br />Prior to implementing ServiceNow, the Business &amp; Information Services (BIS) branch of Parks Victoria needed to support 140 remote locations and two data centers — with an average of 100 inbound calls per day — using an uncompromising tool. They experienced poor reporting, could not establish SLAs, and struggled to define and communicate their services in terms that customers could understand.<br /><br />The team engaged Nobel Consulting Group to help design ITIL processes at a high level. Once ServiceNow was chosen, Nobel provided best practice configuration guidelines to aid implementation.<br /><br />Implementation of Incident, Request, Change, Problem, Service Level Management and CMDB took 16 weeks and was followed by a smooth go-live. <br /><br />Now, the BIS group contributes solid business value to Parks Victoria:<br /><br />•They have a newfound ability to see the impact and urgency of incidents and respond according to priority level<br />•Reporting has dramatically improved <br />•Change happens fast with approvals allowed outside of the change advisory board, plus rate of responsiveness in the organization has increased<br />•Problems are addressed more effectively due to ServiceNow's ability to create a workaround, link all related incidents in one record and address the root cause<br /><br />Says Kimberly Benwell, service manager for Parks Victoria, "It was a matter of having a solution that could support us to quickly transition to a more efficient operation and do things that most other organizations have been doing for years! It's been a successful transformation for us because now we can perform tasks that were impossible before and we can generate reports to demonstrate our value to the business."<br /><br /><a title="w.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,597c045b6fe24d00b90eddef6f3ee406" href="http://www.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,597c045b6fe24d00b90eddef6f3ee406">Read the full case study</a> to learn more about how Parks Victoria is leveraging ServiceNow.</p>