---
title: "Now Red Hat Can Provide Quality IT Service at Scale"
date: 2013-09-16T23:09:40.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=e93e6e6ddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961955"
---
<p>Red Hat is the world's leading provider of open source solutions, using a community-powered approach to provide reliable and high-performing cloud, virtualization, storage, Linux and middleware technologies.<br /><br />In Red Hat's early years, there was little need for formal IT processes because everyone worked closely together and knew the organization's priorities. Soon, with rapid growth, Lee Congdon (CIO at Red Hat) found the need for more process rigor and adopted an on-premise service management system that he hoped would meet their needs. They soon found out the tool was difficult to use, lacked flexibility and was expensive to upgrade or change. <br /><br />Employee satisfaction took a hard hit and the difficult-to-use system constrained IT's ability to provide quality services.<br /><br />Rather than continue to build out an ineffective on-premise solution, Congdon chose ServiceNow, which offered the set of capabilities that would allow the IT team to respond more effectively than would have been otherwise possible. ServiceNow was easy to use and flexible enough to adapt to Red Hat's needs while keeping costs low. Plus, ServiceNow already included integrations to ManageIQ, a company Red Hat had recently acquired and whose products it uses internally.<br /><br />Initial implementation of Incident, Problem and Change was smooth and efficient.<br /><br />Now, Congdon's team of 300 IT associates, as well as the 5,600 global employees and contractors who rely on ServiceNow, experience greater productivity, more flexibility and agility, and improved metrics and visibility. <br /><br />"Our legacy product showed us how difficult it is to run servers ourselves. But ServiceNow enables us to deliver services more effectively, more efficiently and more flexibly than if we were trying to set up those capabilities on premise," said Congdon.<br /><br /><a title="w.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,c21b44446f0e0100391fe13f9f3ee43a" href="http://www.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,c21b44446f0e0100391fe13f9f3ee43a">Read the full case study</a> to learn how Red Hat is planning to extend its use of ServiceNow through self-service and beyond the walls of IT.</p>