---
title: "Where Does All The Code Hide"
date: 2013-09-15T02:48:40.000Z
authors: ["sabell2012"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=63ecee65dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619a2"
---
<p>Have you ever wondered about all the different locations in ServiceNow where code can be present?<br /><br />Bet it just keeps you up at night doesn't it?<br /><br />Well, I was wanting a comprehensive list of coding locations for a utility I was writing (to help with the export to SVN), and decided to sort through everything. I may have missed a couple, but this appears to be the majority. Also, I went and looked at what had actually been given an editor (HTML or JavaScript). It was interesting to note the places where the editor was not present (due to the field type).<br /><br />So off to the Dictionary I went!<br /><!--break--><br /><font color='blue'>Summary:</font><br /><br />Field Types considered to probably contain code:<br /><br /><div style="margin-left: 2em"><br />[*]Condition String<br />[*]Email Script<br />[*]HTML<br />[*]Script<br />[*]Script (Plain)<br />[*]String<br />[*]XML<br /><br /><br />I eyed the column names as well as the field types and came up with a grand total of 187 fields that contained code.<br /><br />Really, for the SVN side of things, I was mostly interested in scripts. So filtering out column names that contained "Condition" or had a type that contained Condition: 34.<br /><br />That brings my total to 153. Ugh! That is a LOT of locations where code could be!<br /><br /><font color='blue'>Totals:</font><br /><br />Email Script:4 (all needing an editor)<br />HTML:38<br />Script:25<br />Script(Plain):54<br />String:25 (all needing an editor of one sort or another, and some needing retyped!)<br />XML: 7 (all needing an editor)<br /><br />Total needing retyped or needing an editor: 36.<br /><br />I have attached my spreadsheet of everything I found. I have marked in green those fields I was most interested in for export to SVN (in case you were curious). Red denotes where I thought an editor probably to needed to be present.<br /><br />You may want to investigate this further, and I would appreciate any feedback for any fields I may have missed.<br /><br />Enjoy! And I hope y'all sleep better now! :-)<br /><br />Steven Bell<br />Santander Consumer USA, Inc.<br />Dallas, TX.</div></p>