---
title: "ServiceNow is the Platform that Pulls Everyone Together at Lennox International"
date: 2013-09-10T01:04:05.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=02cd62e9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961955"
---
<p>Lennox International manufactures climate control products for heating, air conditioning and refrigeration. Its IT staff of 175 supports 5,000 internal users in offices, factories, warehouses and storefronts around the world, plus about 35,000 Web users.<br /><br />Over a period of ten years, IT at Lennox had built many legacy processes in a system that eventually no longer met the needs of the business. Painful upgrades and modifications, prohibitively high costs, and lack of flexibility made up the impetus for change.<br /><br />It took about one year for Carolyn Hollingsworth, senior manager of service operations, to convince management that ServiceNow would be the best replacement. She spent much of that year working with process owners to standardize and document the global processes Lennox would build into ServiceNow. <br /><br />Finally, after the initial ITSM implementation, Hollingsworth and her team began exploring ways to extend the ServiceNow platform to other areas of the business. They built a number of custom applications from scratch, including an access management database, a knowledge base search, and a retail store request app. <br /><br />Furthermore, the Safety team has asked to set up a knowledge base of its own. R&amp;D has asked about automating manual processes in test rooms. And the Audit group thinks ServiceNow's GRC application is ideal for Sarbanes-Oxley compliance testing. <br /><br />Within IT, ServiceNow is being used in the desktop support, application support, and operations infrastructure groups, as well as globally distributed remote support teams. Said Hollingsworth, "ServiceNow has been able to reach across all of IT and become the platform that's pulling everyone together." <br /><br /><a title="w.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,75691ee36f750100391fe13f9f3ee442" href="http://www.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,75691ee36f750100391fe13f9f3ee442">Read the full Lennox International case study</a> to learn more.</p>