---
title: "Consolidate Systems  Automate Processes for Big Wins in IT"
date: 2013-09-23T19:14:35.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=0cdc2665dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961915"
---
<p>Legacy IT sprawl: a phrase often uttered in today's evolving IT landscape. It's a common challenge for retailers, technology companies and manufacturers alike. It refers to the conundrum brought on by years of working with inflexible tools and clumsy patchwork integrations. <br /><br />How can IT succeed when it is bogged down by multiple, fragmented systems and redundant, manual processes? Companies experiencing legacy IT sprawl face numerous challenges.<br /><br />For example, in the aftermath of a large acquisition, electronics manufacturing service provider <a title="w.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,ca2cef446f9ac1006e28e13f9f3ee43c" href="http://www.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,ca2cef446f9ac1006e28e13f9f3ee43c">Flextronics</a> found itself with two main IT systems in place and many individual tools at over 200 sites worldwide. As a result, the functional team lacked a single point of contact for service requests and experienced difficulty tracking service level agreements (SLAs).<br /><br />In addition, <a title="w.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,e5807b1a6f160900b90eddef6f3ee4f3" href="http://www.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,e5807b1a6f160900b90eddef6f3ee4f3">Kingfisher</a>, Europe's largest home improvement retailer, owned two legacy IT software products that made supporting 28,000 PCs, 1.5 petabytes of storage, 1,000 retail outlets and four different websites around the globe too complicated.<br /><br />Too many systems and disparate processes quickly overcomplicate daily work. If IT can implement a single system of record to consolidate its legacy spread, and automate critical processes at the same time, it can better serve the business and achieve big wins across the company. <br /><br /><b>Flextronics transforms service delivery</b><br /><br />In less time than previously spent struggling with the legacy product, Flextronics rolled out ServiceNow to create a single system of record for the enterprise. Now, it has a centralized place for managing all requests from everyone, reaching beyond IT to HR and Facilities — a huge win. Through its consolidation efforts, Flextronics has improved service delivery and is driving faster execution. <br /><br />"ServiceNow lets us anticipate business needs and react to them quickly. It enables us to be fast and to be good at providing solutions to the business," said Fernando Gordoa, manager of support tools for global IT, Flextronics.<br /><br />With the ServiceNow orchestration application, Flextronics is saving time and money by automating the creation of approximately 400 email and 200 Active Directory accounts as well as the provisioning of dozens of virtual machines each month.<br /><br />"We have recovered more than our original investment. It's a combination of soft and hard savings in areas like time, labor, footsteps, re-work and compliance," said Gordoa. <br /><br /><b>Kingfisher improves service performance</b><br /><br />Similarly, facing a patchwork of legacy ITSM products, Kingfisher initiated a global push for automated processes and a single system of record for IT using ServiceNow.<br /><br />As a result of its consolidation efforts, even in the first months after new system go-live, Kingfisher is experiencing:<br /><br />•Better change management — The company can now see dependencies within its configuration management database (CMDB) much more clearly. With the change calendar now integrated to the application, managers can plan and know the impact of their changes more reliably.<br />•Modern user experience — ServiceNow provides a modern, relevant IT solution anywhere and anytime in the world that Kingfisher users need it, which their previous products didn't allow.<br />•High performance — While some users expressed concern about the responsiveness of cloud-based applications, Kingfisher has found the performance of ServiceNow excellent, even taking into account slow wireless networks and large attachments.<br />•Retail-friendly licensing model — ServiceNow licensing is relevant to the way a modern retail organization like Kingfisher operates. Other vendors wanted a named-user type of license for every one of the 65,000 employees who could potentially use the system, but ServiceNow offered greater flexibility with a concurrent licensing model.<br />•Low training curve — With previous products, Kingfisher ran long, in-classroom sessions and tests to train employees. ServiceNow is so intuitive that users are required very little training before go-live.<br /><br />"I now have a whole team of people who have seen that they can do things in a timeline that would have been impossible before. What they've achieved has been fantastic," said Dave Haycocks, head of IT services for UK and Europe, Kingfisher.<br /><br /><b>Big wins in IT</b><br /><br />With a modern single system of record for IT and automated processes in all the right places, IT can win the battle against legacy sprawl and achieve incredible cost savings, an improved user experience and drive faster execution as a result.</p>