---
title: "When the Business Depends on IT"
date: 2013-10-01T02:46:32.000Z
authors: ["sarah.manning"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=4e5ca6a1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619f3"
---
<p>How confident would you be in your IT department if you knew they were tracking your request through emails, spreadsheets and post-it notes?<br /> <br />Moreover, could you trust IT with business-critical projects that are key to driving revenue?<br /><br />Whether or not you can, you must. In truth, the business depends on IT — which means successes, and failures, are shared between them. It also means that any investment in a company's IT department is an investment in the business itself. <br /><br />To help <a title="w.youtube.com/watch?v=fTWewG9vErI" href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fTWewG9vErI">drive success at Blackhawk Network</a>, Aaron Nielsen leveraged the power of the ServiceNow platform to create a project management application for UPC code creation. Previously, the legacy IT system in place at Blackhawk involved forms, spreadsheets and a number of different tracking measures that complicated a process key to generating revenue. But now, based on business what-if scenarios, IT can customize features and now has the flexibility to help turn blueprints into actionable ideas. <br /><br />As a result, it takes less time to create a UPC code: The SLA has decreased from two weeks (which was "forever" in the eyes of the business) to just two days. Nielsen also notes increased executive sponsorship, better quality control, and an ability to manage statistics more effectively. <br /><br />Similarly, business leadership at <a title="w.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,6381722f6f750100391fe13f9f3ee4da" href="http://www.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,6381722f6f750100391fe13f9f3ee4da">FMC Corporation needs insider transparency</a> into what's going on in IT. By leveraging ServiceNow to consolidate previous systems and roll out a single system of record, Ian McFarlane can deliver information that was previously unavailable. Now, management can see everything IT is working on, and data is readily available to present for chargebacks. <br /><br />Enterprises need to understand the deeper business relationship between IT and the rest of the company. Enterprises can allow IT to deliver more to the business by investing in software that consolidates systems, automates processes and transforms service delivery. Remember, when the business depends on IT, IT runs the business.</p>