---
title: "Do You Have What It Takes Asset Management Course Announcement"
date: 2013-10-01T02:36:22.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=dbdc6a65dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619ee"
---
<p>No, this is not another recruiting message (though we are still hiring!). This is a post about Asset Management.<br/><br/>What are your favorite assets? Ok, well... apart from family and friends... (do you really think of them as assets??)<br/><br/></p><p>How do you track these assets? Is it even important to track these assets? From a personal level, this may not seem very important, but consider a couple situations:<br/></p><ul><li>What happens in the event of a robbery or disaster? Do you have the supporting information you need for an insurance claim? Do you know what you had to make a claim on it?</li><li>If you undertake a project, such as cook a dessert, hang a picture, or plant a garden, do you have the assets you need? You do not buy pans or hammer or shovel every time you do a similar project. You get these assets the first time and have them ready for future projects when one project ends.</li></ul><p>Now imagine these situations multiplied a hundred or thousandfold or more. That is what a company deals with every day. No matter what tool you choose to use, when you deal with a large number of assets, you need to have proper process to support the tool. Not only do you need to know what assets you have, but you need to know where they are if your organization is geographically disbursed.</p><br/><br/><span>[flickr-photo:id=10027049133,size=m]</span><br/><em>Two of my favorite non-assets having fun while we picked up some consumables at the grocery store.</em><br/><br/><p>To make a dessert, you need bowls, spoons, pans, an oven before you even get to the consumable items, such as ingredients. If you have 15, 50, or 100 people cooking (not all cooking projects are dessert, right?), how do you ensure you have enough resources? You need process to determine asset needs along with good tools to track and the knowledge to use them together effectively.</p><br/><br/><p>October first marks the release of the ServiceNow Asset Management course. It is a three-day course developed for asset managers in an organization not only learn how to manage assets in ServiceNow, but also to consider the processes and policies to support asset management. This includes hardware and software asset management, consumables, contracts, and how these assets relate to the operations side of the business in IT Service Management and Configuration Management.</p><br/><br/><p>The first two and a half days of the course focus on process and ServiceNow finishes off with an Asset Management game that allows you to apply what you learned throughout the course.</p><br/><br/><span>Because not all asset managers are system administrators, the Asset Management course does not require completion of the ServiceNow System Administrator course. Join us and make sure you have the appropriate assets for all your dessert projects.</span><br/><br/><span>Find out more sometime in the next day or two at www.servicenow.com/training.</span>