---
title: "This government agency changed the minds of skeptics with a single system of record for IT"
date: 2013-10-18T02:59:50.000Z
authors: ["sarah.manning"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=684ea2addbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619fc"
---
<p>IT staff at a <a title="mmunity.servicenow.com/files/AnonymousGov_101413.pdf" href="http://community.servicenow.com/files/AnonymousGov_101413.pdf">statewide government agency</a> sought a single source of truth to support its growing customer base. The existing systems in place held IT back — complicated ticketing, weak processes, lack of transparency to users and no standardization resulted in rogue districts that simply chose to do things their own way. <br /><br />To make matters worse, employees were resistant to change, and didn't want to implement a new solution for IT. <br /><br />With new direction from the CIO to standardize with ITIL, the agency had no choice but to explore developing better processes and selecting a new system. Out of a field of nine different vendors, the agency chose ServiceNow because it made finding information as easy as a few mouse clicks, and could provide an integrated single system of record to run IT. <br /><br />The agency engaged ServiceNow Professional Services to aid in developing new processes and implementing ServiceNow across IT. <br /><br />Now, IT staff can provide greater visibility to customers, has a single point of contact as a one-stop service portal, and can present actionable reporting to the CIO. <br /><br />Plus, the change won over previously skeptical IT staff: "About an hour after go-live, I received email from a user saying that the new system was great and she loved it. That was good on our kick-off day. Usually people hate the new things we give them, but it seems as though everyone wants to be in ServiceNow because it's so easy to use." <br /><br />For more details on the implementation and outcomes, <a title="mmunity.servicenow.com/files/AnonymousGov_101413.pdf" href="http://community.servicenow.com/files/AnonymousGov_101413.pdf">read the full case study</a>.</p>