---
title: "Virtual Lunch and Learn"
date: 2013-10-24T21:59:20.000Z
authors: ["breteden"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=a28c2ae1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961977"
---
<p>The Future of IT: Managing Service Relationships Across the Enterprise<br /><br />Join the ServiceNow Rocky Mountain Team for a virtual Lunch n Learn. This session will be held exclusively for customers in Colorado, Utah and Arizona. Eric Hemmer, Sr. Solution Consultant, will discussing how organizations are evolving the IT Service model to automate and manage service relationships — not only in IT, but throughout the enterprise. In the last several months, we have seen a strong movement of ServiceNow Customers using ServiceNow to automate service relationships in HR, Facilities and Marketing departments. The session will also include a customer case study from Academy Mortgage. Steve Taylor, Technical Services Manager, will share how Academy Mortgage uses ServiceNow for Case Management outside of IT.<br /><br />Date:<br />Tuesday, October 29th<br />Time:<br />11:00am — 12:00pm PST | 12:00pm — 1:00pm MST<br /><br />In this virtual session, you will learn:<br />The current state of service relationships and common issues most IT enterprises are facing<br />How other enterprises have evolved the IT service model to automate and manage service relationships<br />Industry leading perspectives on the evolution of IT and the role IT leaders need to play now<br />During this private webinar session, you will have the opportunity to interact and ask questions with Rocky Mountain ServiceNow team. So join us for lunch (virtually!)<br /><br />To register for the online event you can use this link and hit the REGISTER button. <br /><br />https://servicenow.webex.com/mw0307l/mywebex/default.do?nomenu=true&amp;siteurl=servicenow&amp;service=6&amp;rnd=0.7253888350199441&amp;main_url=https%3A//servicenow.webex.com/ec0606l/eventcenter/event/eventAction.do%3FtheAction%3Ddetail%26confViewID%3D1353144415%26%26email%3Dmichelle.yockey%2540servicenow.com%26encryptTicket%3De308e1aacd40520092c1684a67bd85d7%26%26encryptTicketRegister%3De308e1aacd40520092c1684a67bd85d7%26siteurl%3Dservicenow</p>