---
title: "ServiceNow Education Services Team Introduces Asset Management Training Course"
date: 2013-11-06T12:15:48.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=c4dde2e9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619a7"
---
<p>The ServiceNow Education Services team recently introduced a new training offering for people interested in learning more about <strong>ServiceNow's Asset Management</strong> application.</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p>This is a 3-day technical course targeted to Asset Managers and others in a company who work with assets and financial and contractual information related to these assets. Click <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://www.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,3278bddf6f849d40dbd4ddef6f3ee416" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">here</a> to review our course description posted to our corporate site. The course schedule is also available from this page.</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p>I sometimes get asked by customers whether or not they should take this course or whether they should request our process user training for Asset Management so I thought I would take a few minutes to provide a little Q&amp;A:</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><strong>Q: What is the primary difference between the 3-day course and the process user training offering for Asset Management?</strong><br/>A: The process user training offering provides <strong>customized</strong> training materials and delivery to a customer's implementation of Asset Management. The 3-day training focuses more on how to implement Asset Management but is not customized to a customer's implementation. Using the car analogy I've used in previous posts, the process user training is more like driver training and the 3-day course is more like mechanic training.</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><strong>Q: What is the duration of each course?</strong><br/>A: As stated, the more technical course is 3 days long. Process user training is usually on the order of 1-2 hours.</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><strong>Q: Most of the current courses for the 3-day course is only available via the virtual training classroom. What if I want to have it onsite?</strong><br/>A: If you have more than 5 people at your company that would like to take the course, it might make more sense to have a trainer come onsite (cheaper too). If you have a number of people in your local area that would be interested, that would be another avenue to pursue. To coordinate this effort, please send an email to <a title="k-email-small" class="jive-link-email-small" href="mailto:training@servicenow.com">training@servicenow.com</a></p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><strong>Q: Do I need any prior experience with ServiceNow before I attend this course?</strong><br/>A: Only our Foundations course is a recommended pre-requisite.</p><p style="min-height: 8pt; height: 8pt; padding: 0px;">  </p><p><strong>Q: What if I think I need the process user training instead?</strong><br/>A: Contact your ServiceNow Professional Services representative for a quote. Alternatively, you can contact me for more details at <a title="k-email-small" class="jive-link-email-small" href="mailto:andy.ho@servicenow.com">andy.ho@servicenow.com</a></p>