---
title: "FEEDBACK REQUESTED How do you configure"
date: 2013-11-05T19:44:29.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=931ea26ddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96190b"
---
<p>We are looking for your feedback! Are you on board the CMDB train? Are you trying to figure out how to get value from the data you have in your database?<br/><br/>Since I began developing our new Asset Management course, I've started receiving questions as to whether it would address detailed questions about the Configuration Management Database. I've also noticed more and more posts in social media regarding Configuration Management. While the Asset Management course covers how assets and Configuration Items relate and work together in the environment, it does not really get into a lot of detail on Configuration Management that would meet the specific needs of someone who works with CIs and their relationships daily. <br/><br/>These questions range from where to keep the data in the CMDB to how to handle multiple data sources to how to keep the CMDB up-to-date in a way that is not more costly than the benefits gained from having it. A CMDB is only as good as what you can get out of it.<br/><br/>To avoid becoming <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://knowyourmeme.com/memes/tldr" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">tl;dr</a> here, I want to put out a quick informal poll: <br/></p><div style="margin-left: 2em;"><br/>[*] Are you using a CMDB today?<br/>[*] Would you take a ServiceNow Configuration Management course? (Note the distinction here: Configuration Management, not CMDB. CMDB is a major component, but not everything.)<br/>[*] What would you want to see covered in a Configuration Management course (compare to the topics below - what would you add or subtract?)?<br/><br/>Potential topics (in no particular order):<br/><div style="margin-left: 2em;"><br/>[*] CI classes and how to use them<br/>[*] Handling multiple data sources<br/>[*] Business Service Mapping<br/>[*] Data consistency and quality<br/>[*] Desired state and compliance<br/>[*] Change and the CMDB<br/>[*] What is a Business Service<br/>[*] Using configuration information<br/>[*] Configuration as a foundation for other processes<br/>[*] CIs on the Live Feed<br/></div><br/><br/>Please comment below with your answers or, if you do not feel comfortable posting for the world, <a title="k-email-small" class="jive-link-email-small" href="mailto:ben.sweetser@servicenow.com">drop me an email</a> and let me know your thoughts. I look forward to hearing what you think!</div>