---
title: "Domain  Calgary Unable to create a sysdomain field on a new custom table"
date: 2013-11-14T20:19:16.000Z
authors: ["sbailey"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=bbed222ddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619ff"
---
<p>(I found and reported this problem in September and have been demonstrating it to students in Domain Separation training classes, but had not posted it publicly. A former client emailed me yesterday about it, though, so I thought I'd share this with all in the MSP user group.<br /><br />(attached doc has screenshots included)<br /><br />UNABLE TO CREATE A SYS_DOMAIN FIELD ON A NEW, CUSTOM TABLE<br /><br />Introduced in Calgary (glide-calgary-02-15-2013__cca4-04-19-2013_04-19-2013_2025.zip) was a restriction on the dictionary type field that limits the ability to add new sys_domain fields on custom tables to just ServiceNow employees with 'maint' roles. (PRB589498) The problem associated with this issue has been closed, so we can assume a fix is included in a later Calgary release or an initial Dublin release. <br /><br />In the dictionary, looking at internal_type, we can see that the field only shows types where visible = true or the user has 'maint' (available only to ServiceNow employees). <br /> <br />If we look at the field class for 'domain_id,' we see that the visible flag is set to false. <br /> <br />And to change that would require 'maint' access.<br /> <br />So, our best workaround at the moment is to change the reference qualifier on the Dictionary Type field from:<br />'javascript:gs.hasRole('maint')?'':'visible=true';<br />to <br />'javascript:gs.hasRole('admin')?'':'visible=true';<br /> <br />After doing so, we can now see the Domain ID type and create a new sys_domain field on a custom table.<br /> <br />REMEMBER, though, to look through skipped updates in later releases so you can undo this workaround when a permanent fix is provided. In general, we should NOT be changing the Dictionary table in any way.<br /><br />(attached doc has screenshots included)</p>