---
title: "Your Knowledge Presentation The Gift That Keeps On Giving  To You"
date: 2013-11-20T07:01:40.000Z
authors: ["MichaelDortch"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=44ac2225dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619e1"
---
<p>My esteemed colleague <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://community.servicenow.com/blog/stephenmann" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Stephen Mann</a> has waxed eloquently about why you should <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/blog/ https:/knowledge.servicenow.com/knowledge14/k14_call_for_speakers.do" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">speak at Knowledge14</a> next April in San Francisco. Stephen argues persuasively that the conference gives you an opportunity to <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/blog/ http:/community.servicenow.com/blog/stephenmann/speak-knowledge-14-it's-time-pay-it-forward" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">"pay IT forward."</a></p><p></p><p>All well and good, but perhaps a bit too altruistically focused. I blame it on Stephen's generally genial temperament and being British. As a born-and-raised American (from Brooklyn, New York, no less!), I thought I'd take a slightly different tack.</p><p></p><p>Ahem.</p><p></p><p>Yo, you should speak at Knowledge14 because it's all about <em>you</em> — as it <em>should</em> be.</p><p></p><p>Look. You and I both know that the majority of people appear to suffer from some form of <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://youtu.be/5LysTmwDan8" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">glossophobia</a> -- they fear and/or hate public speaking. Despite this, ServiceNow customers compete for speaking slots at Knowledge conferences.</p><p></p><p>Why? Because telling audiences about how they personally are leading their enterprises to IT and business transformation with ServiceNow is <em><strong>good for their careers</strong></em>. Those audiences may include their next bosses, colleagues or clients. And they know it. And how can a success story <em>not</em> help you move your career forward, where you are or elsewhere?</p><p></p><p>And the icing on the cake? Your telling your success story at Knowledge14 <em>also</em> makes you look like the do-gooder Stephen Mann hopes you are. How? By praising your colleagues and sharing useful information with a grateful audience. With <em>no additional effort required from you</em>! What could be more effortlessly self-serving?</p><p></p><p>Knowledge14 offers you a plethora of potentially career-enhancing, reputation-inflating options. You can answer the <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/blog/ https:/knowledge.servicenow.com/knowledge14/k14_call_for_speakers.do" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">call for speakers</a>, and submit a title and abstract for a proposed breakout session — or several. You can come up with an idea for a killer custom app (or "borrow" the idea from a colleague) in preparation for a reprise of the successful <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/blog/ http:/community.servicenow.com/blog/michael-dortch/servicenow-platform-power-knowledge13-createnow-hackathon" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Hackathon</a> held at Knowledge13. You can shine up your best achievement with ServiceNow (or again, that of a colleague) and get ready to submit it as a candidate Innovation of the Year next month.</p><p></p><p>What the heck? You can do <em>all</em> of the above, especially if you can convince some less-ambitious colleagues to help you. Then all you have to do is <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/blog/ https:/www.cvent.com/events/knowledge14/registration-578f693e417845e3acaaef48462fa938.aspx?r=093f3a9f-4038-4f4b-84f2-78dae1d13f44" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">register</a>, make your travel plans, make some notes for your acceptance speech(es), pick a nice outfit, and get ready to bask in the career-advancing kudos, connections and offers.</p><p></p><p>See? Presenting at Knowledge14 really <em>is</em> all about you. So yo, why would you <em>not??</em></p>