---
title: "Happy New Year to the Australasian Servicenowcom user community"
date: 2011-01-03T06:40:11.000Z
authors: ["paul.heath"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=331da2e5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619a0"
---
<p>Wishing everyone a happy new year from the team at Keystone Management Solutions. <br /><br />We'd like to thank you all from your support during 2010, and look forward to working with you to support and extend your Service-now.com environment. <br /><br />I have listed below some of the activities we are planning to support the local user community over the next few months.<br /><br />- Australasian Webinar Series - for those of us who don't like the 2am wake up calls for the North American webinars<br />Stay tuned for updates on a local webinar series promoting new and existing functionality. The intent of these webinars is to share knowledge to help you extract maximum value from your investment in Service-now.com and complementary solutions provided by Keystone.<br /><br />- Administrator Training<br />We will be publishing a Service-now.com Administrator Training course schedule. We ran our first course last year in Auckland with the support of AUT University. The first 2 day course will focus on basis (101) administration skills. We will also be releasing an Advanced Administrator Training course for those who wish to delve deeper.<br /><br />- Local User Group Meetings<br />Continuing on from the success of the Queensland and Victorian LUG meetings we will be announce a schedule of the next round of LUG meetings shortly. If anybody would like to extend an offer to host a meeting for their local user group please contact me (paul.heath@keystone-ms.com.au).<br /><br />Finally, this forum is for you, the Service-now.com user community. Whilst we will endeavor to post useful knowledge, articles and events, I would encourage all of you to post articles that you think may be of interest to others or to use this forum to seek answers from other Service-now.com users.<br /><br />Once again, we wish you all a prosperous and safe new year.<br /><br />best wishes,<br /><br />Paul Heath<br />Director, Keystone management Solutions.</p>