---
title: "NEW Release and Upgrade Cycle"
date: 2011-03-05T04:32:21.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=b86eaeaddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96195c"
---
<p>For those of you keeping score, Service-now keeps to a schedule of three major product upgrades a year with monthly interim releases. In the past, our Spring, Fall, and Winter releases were followed by monthly "stable" releases. <br /><br />Today we make our latest interim release available and it looks a little different than before. We're changing the name of our major releases and we're lending a new perspective to our interim releases. Let me explain in bullet points:<br /><br />-On 4 February 2011 we made available our Winter 2011 release of new features and functionality. <br /><br />-The next major upgrade will be released in June and called...June 2011. This will be followed by October 2011, February 2012 and so forth. No more Spring, Fall, Winter. (Apparently, seasons mean different things across the world, but months are fairly immutable).<br /><br />-Our interim releases will now be referred to as <i>Previews</i> of the next major release. <br /><br />-Thus, today's release is June 2011 Preview 1<br /><br />Previews include new functionality and enhancements that are under development. The new release cycle should allow customers to test and provide feedback on features as they are developed while still maintaining optimal stability for production instances. <br /><br />In case I've explained this inelegantly we've got a wiki page to try out as well: <br /><br />http://wiki.service-now.com/index.php?title=Upgrade_Policy<br /><br />As always, feel free to email or call with any questions. Cheers.</p>