---
title: "Are you new to Servicenowcom Then this Blog is for you"
date: 2011-03-19T00:56:45.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=e75c6aa1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961943"
---
<p>Welcome Service-now Community,<br /><br />I would like to start by welcoming all new and current Service-now.com users. This blog is going to follow the learning/training of the Service-now.com platform specifically around my teammate Davida Hughes and myself, Joe Westrich. We will be discussing various 'ah-ha' moments we have, as well as sharing helpful tips and tricks to getting started on Service-now.com. We want this to be a very interactive blog and we hope that users of all degrees will contribute there own helpful tips/tricks and also use this as place to ask any question you may have no matter how basic it maybe. I know for me I am finishing up my second week and the scale of this product is awe inspiring and the most amazing thing that I have only begun rapping my head around is the fact that nearly anything is possible with Service-now.com. The biggest 'ah-ha' moment I have had is realizing that once you learn a few basics about the platform you can unlock a huge amount of usability, so I personally encourage any new users to focus on the basics and really learn them inside and out. Additionally the Wiki should be your new best friend, it is important to keep in mind that even as an employee of Service-now.com our primary resource is the Wiki and there is a dedicated team that keeps that site current. Obviously the Community is also a great source for knowledge, news, and most important support.<br /><br />This is all for our first blog, please feel free to suggest anything that would be helpful to you and of course feel free to ask us any questions you may have.</p>