---
title: "Certified System Administrator beta at Knowledge "
date: 2011-04-29T01:16:54.000Z
authors: ["JonL"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=589d6a69dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96199f"
---
<p>Hi everyone - if you are coming to Knowledge 11, you should have just received an email with a really exciting announcement! The Service-now.com training team will be holding a beta run of our new System Administrator certification at Knowledge in San Diego. Details are below:<br/><br/>Dear ...,<br/> <br/>Thanks again for registering for Knowledge11, the biggest event of its kind, with an expected 1,000 users and experts ready to Learn, Share, and Connect with you! The content is amazing, filled with real-world examples from folks just like you looking to transform IT for their organizations. The venue is beautiful and so is San Diego. We look forward to seeing you May 15 — 19!<br/><br/>Just Added — System Administrator Certification<br/><br/>We are excited to announce the launch of our Service-now.com System Administrator certification at Knowledge11! We are inviting up to 120 attendees to take the beta version of our new certification exam. The cost of this exam is $75.<br/><br/>Test Preparation <br/><br/>To be successful on this exam, you should have attended the Service-now.com System Administration class (3 days, available as of March 2011) *and* have at least 2-3 months of hands-on experience with Service-now.com *or* have 6-12 months overall hands-on experience with Service-now.com. To find out more and register for an exam time block, please go to www.service-now.com/certification.<br/><br/>About the Beta Exam and Important Policies<br/><br/>Since this is a beta exam, you will not immediately receive your score on the exam. A thorough review of the test results and detailed item analyses are necessary to ensure the highest quality and integrity of an exam. You should receive your results within 2-3 weeks of taking the test. Your score will be calculated after this comprehensive review and a cut score for passing the exam will then be established. If your score qualifies, you will be awarded a passing grade and issued a certificate for your efforts! If your score doesn't quite make it, you will not be able to apply your registration fee to a retake.</p>