---
title: "The help Blog "
date: 2011-04-30T03:32:04.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=945ee6addbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619d9"
---
<p>The h.e.l.p. Blog 4/29/11<br />Here Everyone Learns Plenty<br />SPECIAL EDITION!<br />I am proud to announce the new learning center is up and running!<br />Link and description provided.<br /><!--break--><br />http://community.service-now.com/learning-center<br /><br /><br />This Foundations online learning course has six modules available for you to explore and learn what Service-now.com is, how it works, and what you can do on the platform. <br /><br />This online training was developed as a prerequisite for the Service-now.com System Administration class, and for others to use as an introduction to Service-now.com.<br /><br />You will learn about the Service-now.com interface, and how to use various features and applications.<br />You will experience Service-now.com in various roles (End User, IT User and System Administrator) to learn about creating an incident, investigating a problem, and recommending a change. We are using role-based scenarios to show the workflow and interactivity of the Service-now.com platform. <br /><br />A little time is spent upfront demystifying some industry terminology (SaaS, Web 2.0 ITIL, etc.) and explaining Service-now.com fundamental building blocks (applications and modules, tables, forms, lists and fields) as well as what is meant by incident, problem and change.<br /><br />Description provided by Diane Cunningham.<br /><br />Many people have spent many hours producing these resources so much thanks goes out to all of them.<br /><br />As always please let us know your feedback!</p>