---
title: "Are you attending Knowledge next week Come learn about the future of the ServiceNow Community"
date: 2011-05-14T03:20:59.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=78edeae9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961968"
---
<p>Hi, everyone. My name is Lawrence Eng, and I just joined ServiceNow as the new Online Community Manager. That means I'm here to serve you as we take this community to the next level. In my next post, I'll introduce myself more fully, but I wanted to let you all know about an informative session at <a title="11.service-now.com/knowledge/home.do?" href="https://k11.service-now.com/knowledge/home.do?">Knowledge11</a> that you might want to attend if you're in San Diego next week.<br /><br />On May 18th, from 3:40-4:30pm, there will be a session called "Documentation Open Forum". Here's the description (taken from the <a title="11.service-now.com/knowledge/agendapage.do?" href="https://k11.service-now.com/knowledge/agendapage.do?">agenda</a>):<br /><br /><blockquote>Join us for a discussion of new Service-now.com product documentation a review of documentation additions made over the past year a tour through the new Service-now.com wiki and a peek into plans for future documentation. Bring your feedback and ideas to share with the documentation team.</blockquote><br /><br />"Community" isn't mentioned explicitly, but the Documentation team is all about the online material that makes your life easier, and that includes the ServiceNow Community. I'll be presenting a few slides at that session, so I hope you'll drop by and get a taste of what's to come.<br /><br />Feel free to <a title="11.service-now.com/u_knowledge_user_conference.do?sysparm_sys_id=2811f6500a0a3c74013884250075d7ca&sysparm_title=K11-Documentation_Open_Forum&sysparm_alarm=15&ICS" href="https://k11.service-now.com/u_knowledge_user_conference.do?sysparm_sys_id=2811f6500a0a3c74013884250075d7ca&amp;sysparm_title=K11-Documentation_Open_Forum&amp;sysparm_alarm=15&amp;ICS">add the session to your personal calendar</a>. If you can't attend the session, come see us at our table! We'd love to chat and answer your questions.<br /><br />If you can't attend Knowledge 11, we are also hosting a <a title="11.service-now.com/knowledge/knowledge_live.do?" href="https://k11.service-now.com/knowledge/knowledge_live.do?">live stream of updates</a>.<br />Once the conference starts, that page will be extremely active. It's the next best thing to being there in person!<br /><br />If you plan to be there, or if there are any documentation or community issues you'd like us to speak about, please tell us in the comments below.<br /> <br />I look forward to meeting all of you - online, in person, or both!<br /><br />-Lawrence</p>