---
title: "The help Blog "
date: 2011-05-27T22:24:26.000Z
authors: ["Joe.Employee"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=86fd262ddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96192b"
---
<p>The h.e.l.p. Blog 5/27/11<br />Post #know11 and community happenings<br /><br />So Knowledge11 is officially behind us but I think it's safe to say I have taken away a year's worth of stuff to do. I would of course like to thank everyone who was able to make it to this year's event; it was truly an amazing experience. I would like to give a special shout out to the Matt and Geoff from VeriSign the winners of the Innovators of the Year award and a big thanks to all the vendors and partners who sponsored the event. I hope that everyone on the community can feel the energy that has been generated by this year's conference and I want you to know it's just the beginning. There have been a lot of great changes made to the community recently none more impactful than the implementation of our new community manager Lawrence Eng. I have had the pleasure of working with Lawrence over the past few weeks and I know without a doubt he is going to be able to take this community to new levels of excellence. Additionally we had the rebranding of ServiceNow with the new logo and coloring, which I think looks awesome! You may have also noticed the new tab at the top of the community 'Knowledge11' and if you haven't checked it out yet you can find all the presentations from our recent conference there. I know this week's blog has been more of a laundry list of community happenings but I really wanted to take the time to point out some of the wins we have had recently because I know as a newer employee it's great to see positive changes happening.<br /><br />As always please leave any feedback you have for me, additionally if you have a topic you would like me to cover in a future edition of 'The h.e.l.p. Blog' please let me know.<br /><br /><br />Thanks,<br /><br />Joe Employee</p>