---
title: "A Woman A Goose and a Parking Lot  ITIL in the REAL World"
date: 2011-08-08T18:10:09.000Z
authors: ["seanpmcclean"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=9f5d2a29dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961907"
---
<p>Sometimes the best way to "learn" a set of concepts is to shake it out, look at it, and throw it over a (seemingly) completely "unrelated" set of experiences. If you can connect those concepts to something truly different, you've got a good chance to not only remember them, but to UNDERSTAND them.<br/><br/>Below is a true story I sometimes use to help connect the concepts of ITIL. Though the details have been blurred (somewhat) the initial call did (truly) come into a Service Desk in the DC area in 90's:<br/><br/>This is a story I typically tell when teaching ITIL classes - keep in mind the goal here is to link some basic ITIL concepts to seemingly Non-ITIL items. Specifically the concepts of:<br/> - Incidents<br/> - Problems<br/> - Changes<br/> - CI's<br/> - Service Desk<br/><br/>It all started with a phonecall to a Service Desk:<br/><br/>"oh my gosh there's a goose on the loose and a woman has been knocked down in the parking lot!"<br/><br/>Crazy, right? BUT I want to walk this through as many of these ITIL parts and pieces as possible:<br/><br/>First off - the Service Desk - a central communication point for just about anything and everything - they receive this crazy call.<br/>ITIL may refer to the Service Desk as a "function" and a "process", but whatever you want to call it, it handles the communication. Think "teller window at a bank". In our tool it's where we see incidents - in some other tools it's a ticket in and of itself.<br/><br/>OK - so what's the Incident here? What's the CI? Is there a Problem?<br/><br/>It may seem a stretch, but for now let's pretend that the woman is the CI (Configuration Item) - I know we tend to think "Exchange Server" or "router", but: She does work for that company, and maybe specifically IT work - let's say she is the sole Database Administrator for all systems in the company. Think it's OK for her to be unconscious in the parking lot? What IT Services rely on her to keep things going?<br/>Generally, I look at something and think: if I need to know where it is to send someone to fix it to keep the business running - it's a good candidate to be a CI. We can spend hours debating how deep to go, but that's grist for another discussion - meantime - we'll just say:<br/> - she does work in the company, we need to send someone to "fix" her - she can't do much if she's laying unconscious in the parking lot...<br/><br/>Once you buy that, the Incident is easy: get her back on her feet and back to work! <br/><br/>So we rush a security guard out there with some smelling salts (incidents are all about speed - getting the right people as quickly as possible to the scene of the crime so to speak - doing whatever is necessary now) - forgetting lawsuits, possible brain damage, post traumatic goose-stress, get her back on her feet and back in the office - she OK? great - let's move our incident team on to the next thing and close the Incident (now this one is always debate - able, but work with me for now...)<br/><br/>OK - so where does Problem fit in? Let's say you've got a few minutes - You may have opened and closed this ticket and you think "how crazy is that! wonder if it's ever happened before..." You type Goose and Parking lot and search...<br/> - 15 Incidents: Goose broke window / Goose chased someone out of parking lot / Goose....<br/><br/>HMMMM - now we seem to have a trend. Something that needs deeper investigation, not firefighting, something that might require... <br/> - you got it - Problem <br/><br/>you can see this a bit in the tickets - the most visible fields on Incident relate to Assigning and Categorization (which, lets face it helps us assign) and Urgency (remember, Incident is all urgent, but PROBLEM is about taking time to THINK, not hurry, hurry hurry). The Incident ticket has a couple of text fields (don't waste much time typing... hurry hurry hurry)- the problem ticket has very visible fields for Description, Workaround, Notes - lots of space for lots of thinking - not so much of the "quick quick quick" fields<br/><br/>So How Could this really be a problem? Well let me put together some more details for you maybe the kind of stuff you'd put in the notes after careful research):<br/> - The facility is in MD cold winters / warm springs<br/> - All of the tickets with "Goose" have happened in April/May/June<br/> - The parking lot sits on a lake<br/> - They increase the number of contractors in the spring to handle stuff, so the parking lot fills up...<br/><br/>Getting a picture here?<br/><br/>Problems tend to have a ROOT CAUSE (incidents probably do to, we're just in too much of a hurry to care) In this one - the root cause:<br/> - In the spring people are parking farther away from the building and closer to the lake - where the geese are putting their nests (with their eggs) on the edges of the warmed up black-top parking lot...<br/><br/>So now we can start thinking about the other issues / elements:<br/> - Workaround - shuffle parking a bit away from the lake and put up signs <br/> - Change Ticket - hmm.... Build a nesting area for the geese away from the parking lot (if you're a conservationist) / think about good recipes for Goose in the spring (if you're more of a hunter/gatherer...) / send security out in the spring w. a bullhorn at random intervals to chase Geese (this by the way is what they did - kind of a workaround, but...) What tasks and approvals have to happen to affect this change?<br/><br/>And so on and so on... I can probably tie just about any of the ITIL practices to this example, and I find sometimes the exercise of connecting dots is helpful.<br/><br/><br/>Well - hoping at least this was kinda entertaining, and maybe it gave a slightly different picture and context of Problem and Incident and CI and Change. This was something that worked well in the ITIL V2 days, but I think understanding the difference is important even in the ITIL V3 world.<br/><br/>Wanna take this a step further? Try it yourself! I've spoken at national and international conferences and delivered workshops where we did nothing more than take the ITIL processes and concepts, and tied them to "far-flung" examples:<br/> - A Service-Catalog for the Death-Star<br/> - Availability Management for Hogwarts<br/> - etc.<br/><br/>Really truly, if you are trying to get some of these ITIL concepts, it might help simply try to wrap them around something fantastical - grab a couple of people and discuss, debate, then you'll find you truly "get" it...</p>