---
title: "Creation of On Change event for variable on Variable Editor"
date: 2011-08-07T15:00:36.000Z
authors: ["adiddigi"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=f31da2e5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619a2"
---
<p>This is my first post on this community,and I thought i would post something that was entirely my work(+ some lil help from community ;)).<br />I had a requirement from client that he should be able to modify the value of any variable in the Variable Editor and we need to hide/show corresponding variables,dependent on this variable.<br /><br />I had gone through the entire community posts,and many other blogs,but I could not get any pointers. Finally the great DOM came to my rescue ;)<br /><br />Here is the way how i achieved onChange on any variable that is on variable Editor. <br />This is just a draft of my idea. This solution may not to optimal :D,I am working on making it better.<br />http://wiki.service-now.com/index.php?title=Client_Scripts#Adding_another_event_Handler<br />Here on this page we have an explanation on how we can add an event to a page.But the problem with Variable editor is the ID of the variables on the variable editor changes from one task record to another making it difficult to get the ID of the element. <br />I have written an onLoad script, that will attach an onChange event.<br /><pre __default_attr="plain" __jive_macro_name="code" class="jive_text_macro jive_macro_code"><br /><br />function onLoad() {<br />var x=document.getElementsByTagName("select");//Get all the select boxes,as my requirement was related to a select box,so I got all those elemts.<br />elementId = x[2].name;//This code will get the ID of  third select box on the page. I need to improve on this line of code<br /><br />var control = g_form.getControl(elementId);//gets the control of the element<br />control.onchange = myOnChange;<br />}<br /><br /><br />function myOnChange() {<br /><br />var a = document.getElementById(elementId);<br />var b= a.value;<br />alert(b);<br />alert('Oh.. Did I just change? Yes I did,and my new value is this?! '+ b);<br />}<br /></pre><br /><br />This code is pretty simple. Not sure why it wasn't there anywhere :)<br /><br />Any suggestions are welcome !</p>