---
title: "Getting Cozy"
date: 2011-09-20T23:23:52.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=dc5de229dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619e1"
---
<p>I am now in my 7th week at ServiceNow — feeling a bit like a seasoned veteran with all the new folks starting after me. It's no secret that we are on an incredible growth trajectory — you feel it as you walk around and talk to other ServiceNow people and to our customers. Even as we grow at this rapid pace, there is an intense desire to stay small in some ways - namely in maintaining the connection we have with our customers, the relationships we have developed. In "Tape Sucks" our CEO Frank Slootman, writes that a key part of business success is the desire to "snuggle up" with your customers. The desire to know your customer needs better than anyone. We completely agree.<br /><br />My role at ServiceNow is Customer Experience and Insights Manager. My job - my passion really - is to make sure that we snuggle up and get cozy with you — our customers — to really understand you. We want to know your business needs, your challenges, how your company works and what you've tried. We want to know how our products work for you — and if/when they don't. We want to know how our partners are doing and what we all could be doing better.<br /><br />We are going to be asking for your feedback — more often than we ever have. From the time you start looking at our products, to signing on with us, through implementation and beyond we will be reaching out to you, starting to get cozy with you. The methods and tools may be different — but it will all come from that deep need to know you, so that we can help you succeed. It will not end there. Getting cozy also means that you hear back from us. Not just a "thank you" form letter or automated response, instead you hear about what we have learned and what we are working on. The information will flow both ways.<br /><br />In the weeks and months to come, I will be using this space to share more about the ways we are reaching out — encouraging you to tell us how we are doing and how we can build stronger relationships. I'll also use this space to share what we are working on so that you can see how much your input means to us.<br /><br />If you have any feedback you would like to share now — please do not hesitate to reach out beki.johnston@service-now.com.</p>