---
title: "The Road to a full fledged CMS Course"
date: 2011-10-04T01:30:40.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=041d6ea5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619a1"
---
<p>When we first announced the Content Management System we had no idea how popular it would become. Many have successfully built and deployed within the CMS that have gone live to production in a relatively short time frame. On the other side of the coin, there are still those that struggle with it and it is those that I would like to help. It is our vision that this application is as user friendly as humanly possible, and hopefully the recent wiki additions set proper expectations about launching a site within the system. Anyone with any experience in site creation realize that there are allot of items to consider when launching a full fledged website. Having worked within the CMS almost exclusively for a few years I have a pretty clear foothold on the benefits and obstacles that are present when authoring a site within the system. <br /><br />Know that I am doing my best to keep the wiki up to date and geared to those authoring sites within the system. I also have some self imposed goals in regards to creating a CMS coarse for this spring's Knowledge12 user conference in New Orleans. Our ESS portal is the first part of the equation, but for this course to fully work update sets from successfully launched portals should be made generic and available for system installation. I will work toward having a few more (proven) sites available out of box in the upcoming release cycles. If you have a site you would like me to consider, let me know. I have seen some phenomenal use of the CMS, and am sure there are sites that I am unaware of. Let me know.</p>