---
title: "Following up"
date: 2011-10-12T00:32:03.000Z
authors: ["beki"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=a31ea26ddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619c4"
---
<p>With the prospect of Fall approaching, my last post on "getting cozy" seemed like a good metaphor for the process of learning our customer needs through conversations and observations. I've been extremely fortunate in the last few weeks to have had a chance to talk to about 15 different customers. As part of our survey process after a customer deployment, I follow up with all folks that respond to the survey to see if they would be willing to spend a little more time with me. If they are, I schedule 15-30 minutes so I can learn more about their experience. <br /><br />This additional time with each customer gives great color to the comments they provided in the survey. This in turn helps me to represent their feedback and similar comments with much more understanding and depth. This follow up is a critical part of the customer insights process and personally one of the things I enjoy most about my day to day work. <br /><br />So what I have I learned through all these discussions? <br />The first thing I hear from most customers is that they love the application. They want us to keep making the improvements as we go, but so far they love it.<br />I also hear feedback about the implementation process itself - which is top of mind given the timing of the survey. Frank and Fred mentioned work we are doing in this area in their post yesterday - <a title="mmunity.service-now.com/blog/lawrenceeng/message-frank-slootman-and-fred-luddy-q4-2011" href="http://community.service-now.com/blog/lawrenceeng/message-frank-slootman-and-fred-luddy-q4-2011">here</a> - regarding standardized ServiceNow implementation process and engagement. <br /><br />And what happens to all this feedback?<br />As also noted in that same message yesterday, we want to listen and respond to customer feedback. As feedback comes in, we look to see if there is anything that needs to be addressed immediately. Beyond that, the feedback that we get from our customers is being rolled into quarterly review, staff meetings and planning meetings so that more folks get to hear the same feedback. We use this feedback to help set future direction.<br /><br />In the next few days, I'll be sharing more about additional ways we get feedback from customers. I hope that this encourages you respond and let us know how we are doing. We are listening.</p>