---
title: "UK User Group  th November   London  Report"
date: 2011-11-23T03:02:30.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=acbde6a9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961997"
---
<p>The 4th and final ServiceNow UK user group of 2011 took place on the 9th November. The event was sponsored by Innovise-ESM, and was held at the Mermaid Theatre, London.<br /><br />With the event oversubscribed and a full and exciting agenda planned for the day, many delegates arrived early to take advantage of the breakfast and coffee on offer. We were joined by Dave Osman and Simon Everest from ServiceNow.<br /><br />The morning sessions kicked off with delegate introductions, a great way to start putting names to faces and understanding what everyone is currently working on. This is a great time to make notes and a plan to speak to those at the coffee breaks who are working on similar items. Simon Skelton — John Lewis Partnership, then facilitated an open forum to discuss all aspects of ServiceNow, as a company, a product and our own customer implementations. Dave Osman then presented to the group. Dave gave a full and informative presentation on ServiceNow developments and how the company has made changes to improve the customer experience even further.<br /><br />Lunch was taken with a view of the Thames and the Tate Modern. It was great seeing so many people discussing and sharing ideas. It's here where the user group really comes into its own. Customers are able to form their own relationships and take away contacts, so to remain in touch and continue their ServiceNow journeys with a larger support network.<br /><br />Two sessions were planned after lunch. Rob Gwatkin — ICM, presented and discussed how the William Hill ServiceNow implementation was undertaken. Rod De Guzman — Innovise ESM, followed and covered the subject of using ServiceNow outside of the IT department. Both sessions were very informative and prompted open discussions.<br /><br />Innovise had also arranged a complementary bar where the delegates could network further into the evening. A beer (or two) was very welcome.<br /><br />It was another fantastic user session again. It was a great chance to meet new customers and to catch up with the old customers. Many of which will now take the chance to form stronger on-going relationships with each other to help improve their own developments for their company's benefit.<br /><br />Many thanks to the team at Innovise who helped put this day together and supplied great facilities.<br /><br />The next ServiceNow UK user group is scheduled for 28th February 2012 and will be hosted by Harrods — London. Not only will you get to speak ServiceNow all day, but get to see more of this iconic department store. Hope to see you there!<br /><br />Pictures - http://www.facebook.com/pages/Service-now-UK-User-Group/118847834856673</p>