---
title: "ITIL in the REAL WORLD  the Lifecycle Part   example"
date: 2011-12-17T06:01:35.000Z
authors: ["seanpmcclean"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=782d26e5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961932"
---
<p>In my last post on <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://community.service-now.com/blog/seanpmcclean/itil-real-world-lifecycle-part-1-concepts" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">ITIL in the REAL WORLD</a> I talked about the ITIL Service Lifecycle concepts, so now it's time to apply them to a real-life example:</p><p></p><p>It begins with a really long line.</p><p></p><p>A REALLY long line — the one that you used to stand in to get your airplane ticket. Yeah that one. The one that used to end with a very tired, very frazzled frustrated ticket agent at the airport.</p><p></p><p>Every time I see a line, I see a pain point to customers looking for service - and where-ever there's a pain point, I'm looking to see if there's not some strategic way to employ technology (or technologies) - in other words: <span style="font-size: "4";"><strong style="text-decoration: underline;"><em>ITIL Service Strategy</em></strong></span> </p><p><br/>Now I know we can all tell horror stories about air travel and lines etc., but lets for just a moment, put on our pilot caps and be an airline. </p><p></p><p>It's an expensive business to run. It's the early oughts (2003 or so) and flying has just gotten REALLY PRICEY - expensive new security requirements, price of fuel, low budget competitors coming in — and to make life even worse, Brittany Spears just came out with that annoying video making every flight attendant uncomfortable. It's just too much! </p><p></p><p>Where in the business can you cut money?</p><p></p><p>IT Service Strategy is about applying today's technology in innovative ways to address the Business strategy.</p><p></p><p>Airlines used to spend a LOT of money on ticket agents, and all those little velvet ropes for queues. And every dollar spent up front is a dollar they CAN'T spend on the back — on the actual "flying the planes" bit (which is kinda important)…</p><p><br/>What technologies do we have in 2003 that might be combined in a new way to cut up front prices of ticket agents?<br/>-Database of Passengers / Flights<br/>-Cheap(er) front end computers<br/>-ID card readers<br/>-Easy Graphic / Web Interfaces<br/>-Touch Screen Technologies (getting cheaper every day…)</p><p></p><p>Throw them all in a blender — hit "mix" and TADA! A new <strong>IT Service!</strong> …the <em><big>Airport Kiosk</big></em>. At this point (strategically) we're talking about the <strong>Service Portfolio</strong>, which we tend to think of as the "internal" list of IT services we offer.</p><p></p><p>Great, but it's probably going to cost a fortune right? Well, determining some broad business value is another part of Strategy — is it worth our commitment of IT dollars to serve the business?<br/>If you're really curious, then check out this article from 2003 that suggests that self-service check in costs around $0.16 as compared to $3.68 to be checked in by a human.</p><p></p><p><a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://www.boston.com/business/globe/articles/2003/11/21/think_atm_as_ticketing_agent/" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Click HERE to read the one of the early articles about this from 2003</a></p><p></p><p>Case closed! Consider this IT service er, well, <em><strong>Strategerized</strong></em> (to quote a leader from those days long ago….)</p><p></p><p>So now it's time to talk about <span style="font-size: "4";"><strong style="text-decoration: underline;"><em>Design</em></strong></span> <br/>When I think Design, I tend to think blueprints, and that's an accurate analogy. In the case of our Airport Ticket Kiosks, really though we're talking about the design of that IT service — When is it available? What will get done to fix it? What are we going to measure it by? </p><p></p><p>These <em><strong>will become</strong></em> the things we're used to thinking about in the IT Service Operations -portion of the world. The basics of SLA's…</p><p></p><p>At some point whatever this IT Service is, we need to <span style="font-size: "4";"><strong style="text-decoration: underline;"><em>Transition</em></strong></span> it to the real world. This involves the processes that we're generally a little more familiar with, but also some things we may not think about:<br/>- Change Management (what existing IT needs to be changed or adjusted to bring these Kiosks in?)<br/>- Who get's trained (and how)?<br/>- How do we communicate it (or er, spin it)?<br/>- How do we manage the expectations of the people most affected by these things?</p><p></p><p>From there we get to the piece we know best (and the part I'll spend the least time on <span style="font-size: "4";"><strong style="text-decoration: underline;"><em>Operations</em></strong></span>.<br/>- Service Desk support (Incident, Problem, etc.)<br/>- Day to day administration of this new IT service</p><p></p><p>Constantly driving improvement to this example is <span style="font-size: "4";"><strong style="text-decoration: underline;"><em>Continual Service Improvement</em></strong></span>, asking questions about how this IT Service could be better — now that technology is a little more forward thinking, is there a way that we can either reduce costs or make the ticketing process even more convenient? Maybe send the ticket directly to their smart phones? Hmm….</p><p></p><p>Hopefully this has helped put the IT Service Lifecycle into a specific IT service you can sink your teeth into. If you're looking for more examples, try to plugging the following IT Services into the concepts of the IT lifecycle model:<br/>- The ATM machine <br/>- Online Banking <br/>- Hotel Booking</p><p></p><p>What strategies do you think drove the growth of these IT Services? What were some of the early design concerns of ATM machines or Online Banking and their related SLA's? What were some of the elements that helped us transition to these IT services smoothly (or not so smoothly)?</p>