---
author: jace
date: 2018-02-15 00:00:00 +0000
layout: post
category: ''
tags:
- other
title: Logs
aliases:
- "/logs/"

---
A [post was made](https://community.servicenow.com/thread/292580) and I was working through some security stuff of my one.  I felt inspired to make a post about it.
Below is a list of logs we need to review regularly for ServiceNow

<!--more-->

Can anyone provide us with Names, Tables, and Sources for the logs listed?

- Authentication successes and failures
  - [Successes](https://.service-now.com/sysevent_list.do?sysparm_query=sys_created_onONToday%40javascript%3Ags.daysAgoStart(0)%40javascript%3Ags.daysAgoEnd(0)%5Ename%3Dlogin)
  - [Failures](https://.service-now.com/sysevent_list.do?sysparm_query=sys_created_onONToday%40javascript%3Ags.daysAgoStart(0)%40javascript%3Ags.daysAgoEnd(0)%5Ename%3Dlogin.failed)
- Authorization (access control) failures
  - This would be very verbose and you wouldn't want this.
  - Do you mean code failures?  They would show up as errors in the logs... but not explicitly listed for an acl, just an code error.
- Application startups and shutdowns
  - So. Application startups depends on what you mean "applications".  If you mean NODES than thats on `sys_cluster_state` in the payload look for `servlet.started` xml node.
  - If you mean something else I don't think that's how this works.
- Configuration changes
  - this is available on `sys_update_xml`
- Changes to code files or memory
  - This is the same as configuration changes.  Servicenow has no files you can modify like a traditional server, at least not that we can access.
- Application errors and system events e.g. syntax and runtime errors, connectivity problems, performance issues, third party service error messages, file system errors
  - [Errors](https://.service-now.com/syslog_list.do?sysparm_query=sys_created_onONToday%40javascript%3Ags.daysAgoStart(0)%40javascript%3Ags.daysAgoEnd(0)%5Elevel%3D2)
- Input validation failures e.g. protocol violations, unacceptable encodings, invalid parameter names and values
  - I'd guess this would be in the syslog_list, but I'm not sure exactly the types of things you're expecting.
- Output validation failures e.g. database record set mismatch, invalid data encoding
  - I'd guess this would be in the syslog_list, but I'm not sure exactly the types of things you're expecting.
- Session management failures e.g. cookie session identification value modification
- Acceptance of EULA/terms of use
  - Not ootb, but if you applied [servicenowguru's](https://www.servicenowguru.com/system-definition/login-terms-conditions-dialog/) then you'd look on the "Terms Acceptance table".  However I can't find the update set to download.
- Personal data usage notification/consent
  - Not sure what you mena by this.  Do you mean like HIPAA, PII and the like?  If so there's nothing to say this ssn, or address is added as a comment in the system.  You'd have to add that via a customization.
- Attack detection e.g. excessive authentication failures, file upload virus detection
  - See [Auth Failures](https://.service-now.com/sysevent_list.do?sysparm_query=sys_created_onONToday%40javascript%3Ags.daysAgoStart(0)%40javascript%3Ags.daysAgoEnd(0)%5Ename%3Dlogin.failed)
  - There is no virus checking to my knowledge of uploaded files, however you can control the upload types and sizes from these properties
    - System Properties > `glide.ui.strict_customer_uploaded_content_types` restricts what can be loaded vs downloaded to stop xss
    - System Properties > `glide.security.file.mime_type.validation` restricts the file's mime type on upload
    - System Properties > `glide.ui.strict_customer_uploaded_static_content` restricts the files somehow
    - System Properties > `glide.attachment.extensions` restricts the files extensions allowed to be uploaded
    - System Properties > `glide.image_provider.security_enabled` restricts access to uploads to authenticated users
    - System Properties > `glide.ui.attachment.download_mime_types` restricts downloadable mime types
- Any other logs that would help identify suspicious, unacceptable, unexpected behavior, or other possibly malicious activities.