---
date: '2018-12-02'
layout: post
title: K19 Proposals
---

Below are my K19 proposal's to speak. I'd like to develop these points
into posts at some point so I have an embedded survey below the details
of these talks

::: {.text-center}
Create your own user feedback survey
:::

[Results](https://www.surveymonkey.com/results/SM-MR75LCJ9V/)

# Integrate repeatably faster by following these steps

## Session Abstract

### Introduction and Problem Statement

My company is a company like many others, with data in a lot of places.
In this session, we'll look at how having a consistent integration
policy can help make development of those integrations easier.

### Approach and Results

In this session, I will share how we've;

-   Improved device tracking (azure intune) for compliance, and security
    reasons.\
-   Solarwinds import to improve discovery
-   Crashplan import to drive compliance of legalholds and status in a
    central system

### Attendees will learn how to:

-   Make a import set from a script
-   Make import set rows from a script
-   Run many transform maps against a import set from a script

## What is the objective of your session?

To show, how and why using some consistent practices around integrations
can save you a lot of time and trouble.

## What are the three key takeaways you will want your audience to leave with?

1.  You can follow a common import pattern to drive most integrations to
    simplify development and further customizations
2.  Rest API integrations that Servicenow has to ask for data from can
    follow this pattern
3.  After you do it once or twice you can easily do it for other
    integrations

# Open Sourcing ATF tests with Github and hacktoberfest

## Session Abstract

### Introduction and Problem Statement

My company is a company like many others, we want to upgrade quickly but
due to testing are slowed sometimes. In this session, we'll talk about
how I started a repo to open source OOB Test Suites to give us a
baseline for future upgrades.

### Approach and Results

In this session, I will share how I started to maintain a repo for test
suites in Servicnow. I found I was participating in my second
\#hacktoberfest and a thought occured. How can I get other people to
build tests so I don't have to? And it was simple. Make a repo, share it
and spread the word.

## Attendees will learn how to:

-   Contribute to an open source project for scoped applications
-   Avoid nuiances for servicenow's repos branches
-   Accept and Reject Pull Requests without breaking and losing data.
-   Make a project site for the project with Netlify

## What is the objective of your session?

To show, how and why open sourcing some scoped applications can save you
time.

## What are the three key takeaways you will want your audience to leave with?

1.  You can open source scoped applications to share with the community
    work managed on git
2.  Doing so can get other to contribute to help drive the progression
    of the project
3.  It can help everyone, so, try to share in the future.

# Learn by supporting or starting your own local Developer Meetup

## Session Abstract

### Introduction and Problem Statement

Two years ago I started a Developer Meetup for servicenow talent to do
ad-hoc labs and have happy hours. I didn't want what happened to the
SNUG's happening to this event so I volunteered.

### Approach and Results

Running the event has been a ride and I would do it all over again. In
this session I'll go over what it takes to run these events.

## Attendees will learn how to:

-   Identify how often and about what the meetup should meet about.
-   Finding content to use for labs and / or for happy hour discussions.
-   Finding hosting locations in your area.

## What is the objective of your session?

To share what it takes to run developer meetups to give attendees
information to form their own OR assist their local meetup.

## What are the three key takeaways you will want your audience to leave with?

1.  You don't have to host or run the event to help. There are lot's of
    opportunity to help out.
2.  Attend it, it's smaller and less formal then your servicenow user
    groups.
3.  Provide feedback, it's always useful.
