---
date: '2019-01-04'
layout: post
title: |
    Order of operations (business rules, acls, data policies, ui policies,
    and client scripts)
authors: ["jace"]
---

Understanding **when** something runs is critical when building these
systems. Servicenow has a very simple and great image that captures that
for [business
rules](https://docs.servicenow.com/bundle/geneva-servicenow-platform/page/script/business_rules/reference/r_HowBusinessRulesWork.html).
However that doesn't help with other scripts in the system. Bas @
Logicalis wrote something up about this on
[snc-blog](http://www.snc-blog.com/2017/02/02/script-execution-flow/)
but I thought I could improve on it. Also messing with things is a way I
remember better.

I try to keep all the common diagrams I use on
[https://workflow.jace.pro/](https://workflow.jace.pro/?flow=BusinessRuleOrderSequence)
but I realize I don't really share when that changes.

Here I've been messing with this and I thoguht now is a great time to
share this diagram I keep out there.

{{}} sequenceDiagram participant uxux as User Interactions participant
csup as UI Policy participant cscs as Client Script participant ssss as
Server Side participant eeee as Engines participant dbdb as Database
uxux-\>\>ssss: Form Request ssss-\>\>dbdb: Query Business Rules
dbdb-\>\>ssss: Display Business Rules ssss-\>\>cscs: OnLoad Client
Scripts cscs-\>\>csup: OnLoad UI Policies csup-\>\>uxux: Form loaded
loop Every Change uxux-\>\>ssss: ref\_qual\_element field changes
ssss-\>\>cscs: OnChange Client Scripts cscs-\>\>csup: OnChange UI
Policies csup-\>\>uxux: Form Updated end uxux-\>\>csup: Form
Submit(client) csup-\>\>cscs: OnSubmit Client Scripts cscs-\>\>ssss:
Form Submit(server) ssss-\>\>eeee: Before Business Rules \<1000
eeee--\>ssss: Approval engine eeee--\>ssss: Assignment rules engine
eeee--\>ssss: Data policy engine eeee--\>ssss: Escalation engine
eeee--\>ssss: Field normalization engine eeee--\>ssss: Role engine
eeee--\>ssss: Execution plan engine eeee--\>ssss: Update version engine
eeee--\>ssss: Workflow engine (for default workflows) eeee-\>\>ssss:
Before Business Rules \>=1000 ssss-\>\>dbdb: Database Update
dbdb-\>\>ssss: After Business Rules \<1000 ssss--\>eeee: Label engine
ssss--\>eeee: Listener engine ssss--\>eeee: Table notifications engine
Note right of eeee: This creates sysevents that process later
ssss--\>eeee: Role engine ssss--\>eeee: Text indexing engine
ssss--\>eeee: Update sync engine ssss--\>eeee: Data lookup engine
inserts or updates ssss--\>eeee: Workflow engine (for deferred
workflows) ssss--\>eeee: Trigger engine (for all Flow Designer flows)
eeee-\>\>ssss: After Business Rules \>=1000 ssss-\>\>ssss: Async
Business Rules Note right of ssss: This creates sys\_triggers that
process later ssss-\>\>dbdb: Query Business Rules dbdb-\>\>ssss: Display
Business Rules ssss-\>\>uxux: Return UI Note over uxux,dbdb: Thanks to
http://www.snc-blog.com/2017/02/02/script-execution-flow/ {{}}
