---
title: Working from home (WFH)
description: "I think\_theoatmeal.com's\_Why working from home is both awesome and HORRIBLE\_sum's up a lot of the social considerations to keep in mind. I'll breakdown my op..."
date: '2017-09-22'
tags:
  - tutorial
redirectFrom:
  - /wfh/
---

<!--StartFragment-->

I think [theoatmeal.com](http://theoatmeal.com/)'s [Why working from home is both awesome and HORRIBLE](http://theoatmeal.com/comics/working_home) sum's up a lot of the social considerations to keep in mind. I'll breakdown my opinion of these thoughts and how to combat them below.

## Degradation of social skills

* Work from co-working spaces.
* Be an extrovert on evenings and weekends (e.g. go to Meetups or\
  other social gatherings.)

## Distractions

* Close Reddit/Facebook/Twitch/etc.
* Don't play games.

## Stress on relationships

* Have a honest conversation about this with your significant other to\
  clear this up. If they don't get it, go to a co-working space on\
  days they'll be home, or send them away.
* Working from home can sometimes give the impression you have time to\
  do errands you shouldn't do;

  * fold laundry
  * rotate laundry
  * do dishes
  * clean the floors

## Loss of regimen

* It's crucial to have a set of hours you're working and then stick to\
  it.
* This tells you when you need to get up and when you need to get out.

## Lack of employee banter

* Physical interactions with people.
* They don't have to be co-workers, but anyone.
* Go to a co-working space.
* Your cat/dog cannot provide this.

## Stay active

* Go for a walk on break, get away from your office when you do.

## Don't skimp on equipment

* I'd suggest having;

  1. Computer Chair (you'll be logging hundreds, if not thousands of\
     hours in this thing, get one that's comfortable)
  2. [Active Noise Cancelling headset](https://www.amazon.com/Plantronics-Voyager-Focus-B825-Headset/dp/B013F4LJTI)
  3. Webcam (sometimes you need to see someone's face, sometimes\
     someone needs to see yours)
  4. Mouse and Keyboard (again you'll be spending a lot of time with\
     these devices, make sure they are great for yourself to use)