---
title: "Now Learning Blog  So you want to be a ServiceNow Architect Part "
date: 2020-03-03T19:40:55.000Z
authors: ["Julie"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=8240790edbd7cc10d58ea345ca961905"
---
<p class="p1"><span class="s1" style="font-family: helvetica; font-size: 14pt;">Honorable mentions (or more courses that will help you become a ServiceNow Architect) </span></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1" style="font-family: helvetica; font-size: 12pt;">The <a href="https://community.servicenow.com/community?id&#61;community_blog&amp;sys_id&#61;648631bbdbcf8450d58ea345ca961973" rel="nofollow"><span class="s2">first blog</span></a> in this series covered the essential courses required to become a ServiceNow Architect.  It is important to remember, it is not enough to just complete course work for becoming a ServiceNow Architect, there are core technical competencies that can be achieved through completion of ServiceNow training, but knowledge of industry best practices and daily practice using the ServiceNow platform and products is also very important. </span></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1" style="font-family: helvetica; font-size: 12pt;">In this second blog, we will review the ServiceNow courses that receive ‘honorable mentions.’  Once you’ve mastered the essentials, take your skillset to the next level. Completing these courses and putting the skills learned therein to practice will help you to become a better ServiceNow Architect. </span></p>
<p class="p2"><span class="s1" style="font-family: helvetica; font-size: 12pt;"> </span></p>
<p class="p2"><span class="s1" style="font-family: helvetica; font-size: 14pt;">Event Management </span></p>
<p class="p1"><span style="font-family: helvetica; font-size: 12pt;"><span class="s3"><a href="https://nowlearning.service-now.com/lxp?id&#61;overview&amp;sys_id&#61;2d67be84db1a7340760a7104399619a4&amp;type&#61;course" rel="nofollow"><strong>Event Management Fundamentals</strong></a></span><span class="s1"> - In this course attendees learn how to enable service-centric operations management by configuring Event Management in ServiceNow. </span></span></p>
<p class="p3"><span class="s1" style="font-family: helvetica; font-size: 12pt;"><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Why this class?</span> Event Management is the central nervous system and brain stem of the instance. It is the intake and correlation of all stimuli related to CIs and services being monitored by any source. It ties into EVERY other service in meaningful ways. Our Principal Technical Trainer imparts this wisdom, “<em>People mistakenly think that EM is just an operational thing – nope, it’s the eyes, ears, and canary in the coal mine for every service as it (along with Operational Intelligence) can alert service owners when it detects deviations away from ‘normal.’”</em> </span></p>
<p class="p4"><span class="s1" style="font-family: helvetica; font-size: 12pt;"> </span></p>
<p class="p2"><span class="s1" style="font-family: helvetica; font-size: 14pt;">Application Development </span></p>
<p class="p1"><span style="font-family: helvetica; font-size: 12pt;"><span class="s3"><a href="https://nowlearning.service-now.com/lxp?id&#61;overview&amp;sys_id&#61;8c27ba4cdb5eff40de3cdb85ca961916&amp;type&#61;course" rel="nofollow"><strong>Application Development Fundamentals</strong></a><strong> </strong></span><span class="s1">– This hands-on course provides training and lab work to support custom application development in ServiceNow. In this course, you will build an application by working through a checklist of considerations for application creation including such important aspects as to how users will interact with the application. </span></span></p>
<p class="p1"><span style="font-family: helvetica; font-size: 12pt;"><span class="s4"><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Why this class?</span> </span><span class="s1">A ServiceNow Architect should understand how applications are developed within the ServiceNow platform.  This class will give you the skills needed to design, build, test and deploy applications. </span></span></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1" style="font-family: helvetica; font-size: 12pt;"> </span></p>
<p class="p2"><span class="s1" style="font-family: helvetica; font-size: 14pt;">System Administration </span></p>
<p class="p1"><span style="font-family: helvetica; font-size: 12pt;"><span class="s3"><a href="https://nowlearning.service-now.com/lxp?id&#61;overview&amp;sys_id&#61;9f48ba8cdb5eff40de3cdb85ca961944&amp;type&#61;course" rel="nofollow"><strong>System Administration Advanced</strong></a></span><span class="s1"><strong> </strong>– The System Administration Advanced course teaches about the robust controls in the base instance in modules and labs to reinforce daily tasks.  Course labs are designed step-by-step to facilitate the application of concepts. </span></span></p>
<p class="p1"><span style="font-family: helvetica; font-size: 12pt;"><span style="text-decoration: underline;"><span class="s4">Why this class?</span></span><span class="s1"> This course covers many ServiceNow administration topics in detail which are invaluable for a ServiceNow Architect to understand. These advanced concepts include ServiceNow applications and application components, the difference between application configurations and customizations, best practices for reporting efficiencies within the ServiceNow platform, debugging tools, various factors affecting performance and the different data paths into the ServiceNow platform. </span></span></p>
<p class="p3"><span class="s1" style="font-family: helvetica; font-size: 12pt;"> </span></p>
<p class="p2"><span class="s1" style="font-family: helvetica; font-size: 14pt;">Customer Service Management </span></p>
<p class="p1"><span style="font-family: helvetica; font-size: 12pt;"><span class="s3"><a href="https://nowlearning.service-now.com/lxp?id&#61;overview&amp;sys_id&#61;fd473e4cdb5eff40de3cdb85ca9619b8&amp;type&#61;course" rel="nofollow"><strong>Customer Service Management Fundamentals</strong></a></span><span class="s1"><strong> </strong>and<strong> </strong><a href="https://nowlearning.service-now.com/lxp?id&#61;overview&amp;sys_id&#61;e5473e4cdb5eff40de3cdb85ca961986&amp;type&#61;course" rel="nofollow"><span class="s2"><strong>Customer Service Management Implementation </strong></span></a>– These Customer Service Management courses will help practitioners master the set-up, configuration, and usage of the ServiceNow Customer Service Management application. The fundamentals course is designed for those responsible for configuring and managing the Customer Service Management application. The Implementation course covers common technical aspects of implementation as well as processes to effectively manage an implementation. </span></span></p>
<p class="p1"><span style="font-family: helvetica; font-size: 12pt;"><span style="text-decoration: underline;"><span class="s5">Why these courses?</span></span><span class="s6"> When customers have problems, they expect a fast resolution and a simple engagement process. They prefer multiple engagement methods from self-service online to direct engagement with service agents over their choice of phone, email, or chat, etc. To provide the highest levels of service, your agents need real-time metrics and real-time collaboration mechanisms that just aren’t available through traditional tools. Customer Service Management via case management is quickly becoming the single touchpoint for human interaction with end-users and an architect will need to understand the evolution of how the CSM application shapes process and data flow throughout the enterprise. According to our Principal Technical Trainer, “<em>CSM is the service bus that manages the touchpoints between every human interaction and every other enterprise process.  We keep the humans out of ITSM/ITOM and all back end processes full stop so we can better automate those things and focus on improving the outcomes of each.”</em> </span></span></p>
<p class="p3"><span class="s1" style="font-family: helvetica; font-size: 12pt;"> </span></p>
<p class="p2"><span class="s1" style="font-family: helvetica; font-size: 14pt;">Security and Risk </span></p>
<p class="p1"><span style="font-family: helvetica; font-size: 12pt;"><span class="s3"><a href="https://nowlearning.service-now.com/lxp?id&#61;overview&amp;sys_id&#61;e08772c4db1a7340760a710439961958&amp;type&#61;course" rel="nofollow"><strong>Governance, Risk and Compliance Fundamentals</strong></a></span><span class="s1"><strong> </strong>and <a href="https://nowlearning.service-now.com/lxp?id&#61;overview&amp;sys_id&#61;4038f68cdb5eff40de3cdb85ca9619a3&amp;type&#61;course" rel="nofollow"><span class="s2"><strong>Security Operations Fundamentals</strong></span></a> – Governance, Risk, and Compliance (GRC) is a company&#39;s strategy for managing corporate governance, enterprise risk management, and demonstrating corporate compliance and GRC Fundamentals teaches you this strategy for managing corporate governance, enterprise risk management, and demonstrating corporate compliance. In the Security Operations Fundamentals course, you have a chance to perform SecOps functions in your own student instance where you will learn about the tools to integrate Threat Intelligence feeds, explore Threat Intelligence data and use Vulnerability Assessment management and response tools. </span></span></p>
<p class="p1"><span style="font-family: helvetica; font-size: 12pt;"><span style="text-decoration: underline;"><span class="s4">Why these courses?</span></span><span class="s1"> Understanding how risk is modeled and addressed in our products is important for a ServiceNow Architect.  Security Operations tends to focus on the day-to-day tactical and operational risk while GRC tends to focus on strategic risk in terms of oversight, mitigation, and appetite.   </span></span></p>
<p class="p6"><span class="s1" style="font-family: helvetica; font-size: 12pt;"> </span></p>
<p class="p2"><span class="s1" style="font-family: helvetica; font-size: 14pt;">What’s Next?  </span></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1" style="font-family: helvetica; font-size: 12pt;">In the next blog, we’ll be looking at technical best practices and core competencies that round out the successful ServiceNow Architect.  Thanks for reading and happy learning!  </span></p>