---
title: "Update on COVID"
date: 2020-03-14T02:22:23.000Z
authors: ["Dan Bruhn"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=c7c97615db238c14d58ea345ca96191c"
---
<p>As a global company, we have critical business functions, including technical support and cloud operations, distributed in regions around the world. This model ensures consistent, world-class customer support and service levels for our customers. <br /><br /></p>
<p>We are committed to delivering high levels of uptime for ServiceNow instances to ensure that our customers have all of the capabilities available to them to continue their operations. We maintain an Advanced High Availability Architecture with the ability to run a customer&#39;s production application from a pair of data centers located in geographically different regions. More information about our architecture and data center pairings is available <a href="https://www.servicenow.com/content/dam/servicenow-assets/public/en-us/doc-type/resource-center/white-paper/wp-sn-advanced-high-availability-architecture.pdf" rel="nofollow">here</a>. ServiceNow has also confirmed that our business-critical partners have contingency plans in place to ensure further business continuity.<br /><br /></p>
<p>ServiceNow&#39;s business continuity plan covers the ability for our cloud operations and technical support teams to work remotely in a safe and secure manner so they can continue to serve our customers. All remote access happens using secure connections and multifactor authentication and is in compliance with applicable regulations and corporate standards.<br /><br /></p>
<p>As we continue to navigate the changing situation, we are confident in our business continuity plan and our ability to provide customers with the support they need to maintain their own business continuity. <br /><br /></p>
<p>ServiceNow will continue to closely monitor the situation and is prepared to make real-time decisions to implement other measures to support employees, customers and stakeholders as needed. The company also will provide ongoing updates on the status of its annual user conference, <a href="https://blogs.servicenow.com/2020/k20-coronavirus-update.html" rel="nofollow">Knowledge 2020</a>, scheduled to take place May 3-7 in Orlando, FL.</p>