---
title: "COVID and Knowledge  Update for SNUG Members"
date: 2020-03-20T02:06:59.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=08dfe9db1bab0894d01143f6fe4bcbe2"
---
<p>Dear SNUG Members,</p>
<p>At ServiceNow, our mission is to make the world of work, work better for people. As you probably imagine, the way people work has changed significantly over the past several days and weeks as organizations have adjusted to a new workplace reality in response to the COVID-19 virus.  </p>
<p>For our customers, for our community, and for ServiceNow itself, business goes on—albeit in a different way<strong>. </strong>And we’re here to help.</p>
<p>I have two announcements, one regarding some new apps from ServiceNow to help organizations better coordinate people and logistics during emergencies, and the other is an update on Knowledge 2020.</p>
<p><strong>Apps to aid COVID-19 response efforts</strong></p>
<p>Recently, The State of Washington’s Department of Health developed an Emergency Response Operations app on the Now platform. The app is designed to help organizations better coordinate people and logistics during emergencies, with real-time visibility into response activities.</p>
<p>Because we believe this app can help other government agencies and organizations in their COVID-19 response efforts, we’re making the Emergency Response Operations app available at no charge to all ServiceNow customers.</p>
<p>We are also releasing three other apps that we developed specifically to help companies with their response to COVID-19 in areas such as managing quarantines and emergency procedures related to potential exposures and/or positive test results. These apps will also be available at no charge until September 30<sup>th</sup>, 2020.</p>
<p>No-charge Apps:</p>
<ul><li>Emergency Response Operations, initially created by the Washington State Department of Health, is a ServiceNow workflow that supports emergency response and preparedness at the state and local government level, as well as enterprises. It helps optimize resources and staff in critical locations.</li><li>Three no-charge community apps: Emergency Outreach, Emergency Self Report and Emergency Exposure Management. These apps are designed to help companies and employees stay connected, up to date, and effective during this time of crisis management. The apps are available now and will remain free through September 30, 2020 after which users will need to purchase a license for our app engine.</li></ul>
<p>You can learn more about these apps at <a href="http://www.servicenow.com/crisisresponse" rel="nofollow">www.servicenow.com/crisisresponse</a>.</p>
<p><strong>How you can help</strong></p>
<p>We have built a <a href="http://www.servicenow.com/covid19" rel="nofollow">COVID-19 Resources forum</a> as a place to collaborate, share suggestions for new apps and innovation, and discuss how you’re using the Now Platform to help your company deal with this crisis.</p>
<p>We’ve also launched an <a href="http://www.servicenow.com/covid-app-suggest" rel="nofollow">App Suggestion Portal</a> where you can suggest improvements to our existing apps, submit suggestions for new apps, or vote on suggestions from others. Partners and Developers who create new apps can submit them for review in the Store to be added to the COVID-19 Apps section.</p>
<p>I would deeply appreciate anything SNUG Members can do to share feedback and input using the links above The more feedback we have the better!</p>
<p> </p>
<p><strong>Knowledge 2020:</strong></p>
<p>The ServieNow leadership team has made the decision to take Knowledge 2020 to a digital experience. This decision wasn’t made lightly and comes after weeks of closely monitoring the evolving COVID-19 pandemic, but ultimately, the health and safety of our Knowledge 2020 attendees, employees, partners, and community comes first. We have sent out communications already to people who have registered, but in case you did not get it I wanted to keep you in the loop.</p>
<p><em><strong>Important links:</strong></em></p>
<ul><li><strong>Link to K20 blog</strong>: <a href="https://blogs.servicenow.com/2020/k20-coronavirus-update.html" rel="nofollow">https://blogs.servicenow.com/2020/k20-coronavirus-update.html</a></li><li><strong>Link to K20 FAQ</strong>:  <a href="https://knowledge.servicenow.com/faq.html" rel="nofollow">https://knowledge.servicenow.com/faq.html</a></li></ul>
<p><em><strong>Knowledge – FAQs</strong></em><em>  - </em>Available on the K20 website <a href="https://knowledge.servicenow.com/faq.html" rel="nofollow">https://knowledge.servicenow.com/faq.html</a>.</p>
<p><strong>Who can I call for assistance with registration or any additional questions?</strong><strong><br /> </strong>If you need any assistance with your Knowledge registration, please contact the applicable Knowledge support team listed below:</p>
<p>Knowledge 2020 Main Contact Information<br /> Domestic: &#43;1 866.855.3789<br /> International: &#43;1 650.416.8382<br /> Email: <a href="mailto:knowledge&#64;servicenow.com" rel="nofollow">knowledge&#64;servicenow.com</a></p>
<p><strong>Registration, Payments, and Changes</strong></p>
<ul><li><strong>What happens to my paid Knowledge 2020 registration and add on’s like convenience packages and guest passes?</strong><strong><br /> </strong>Good news! We are rolling over your Knowledge 2020 pass and add on’s to Knowledge 2021. If you would like to request a refund, please reach out to us at <a href="mailto:knowledge&#64;servicenow.com" rel="nofollow">knowledge&#64;servicenow.com</a>.</li><li><strong>What happens to my paid conference add on’s and/or training?</strong><strong><br /> </strong>Good news! We are rolling over your Knowledge 2020 convenience package and add on’s to Knowledge 2021. If you would like to request a refund, please reach out to us at <a href="mailto:knowledge&#64;servicenow.com" rel="nofollow">knowledge&#64;servicenow.com</a>.</li><li><strong>I bought tickets to Knowledge as part of my sales contract. How do I receive a refund?</strong><strong><br /> </strong>Tickets to Knowledge 2020 that were part of a sales contract will roll over to 2021. The company will receive the same number of passes but they will be attached to the company, not to an individual. If you do not want your tickets to roll over to Knowledge 2021, please contact your account manager.</li><li><strong>Will there be a cost for digital participation?</strong><strong><br /> </strong>We will not be charging for attending the Knowledge 2020 digital experience. Stay tuned for more information on how to register.</li></ul>
<p><strong>Travel &amp; Accommodation</strong></p>
<ul><li><strong>Will I receive reimbursement for airfare?</strong><strong><br /> </strong>Airfare and hotel is the sole responsibility of the individual and will not be reimbursed.</li><li><strong>How do I cancel my hotel reservation?</strong><strong><br /> </strong>Reservations made through the Knowledge 2020 registration system will be cancelled on your behalf. Cancellations will be processed within 5 to 7 business days and you will receive an email with the confirmation details.<strong><br /> <br /> </strong>Note: If you booked a hotel outside of the Knowledge 2020 registration system, you are responsible for the cancellation of that reservation and any associated costs.</li><li><strong>I booked a hotel through the Knowledge 2020 website; can I still keep the hotel room?</strong><strong><br /> </strong>No. All hotel reservations associated with Knowledge will be canceled.</li><li><strong>Will I receive reimbursement for hotels booked outside the registration system?</strong><strong><br /> </strong>If you have made a reservation outside of the Knowledge 2020 registration system, please contact the hotel directly to cancel your reservation</li></ul>
<p><strong>General Information</strong></p>
<ul><li><strong>How is the Coronavirus (COVID-19) situation impacting Knowledge 2020?</strong><strong><br /> </strong>Please visit the <a href="https://blogs.servicenow.com/2020/k20-coronavirus-update.html" rel="nofollow">Knowledge 2020 and COVID-19 blog</a> for more information on this year’s event.</li><li><strong>Will you be hosting Knowledge 2020 digitally?</strong><strong><br /> </strong>The Knowledge 2020 digital experience will showcase all the ways you can unlock productivity through modern digital workflows, highlight the latest customer and platform innovations, and inspire the ServiceNow community to continue to create great experiences for businesses.</li></ul>
<p>In the coming days and weeks, we will provide details about the Knowledge 2020 digital experience. We are committed to creating a phenomenal digital experience that will engage, inspire, and connect you to the best practices from our customers around the world. </p>
<ul><li><strong>When will the Knowledge 2020 digital experience take place?</strong><strong><br /> </strong>We are determining the dates for our Knowledge digital experience. Stay tuned for more!</li><li><strong>Will there be access to Knowledge 2020 session content?</strong><strong><br /> </strong>We are working quickly to determine our digital plans for Knowledge in order to provide some of the fantastic content we have for you. As our plans come together, we will let you know what options are available for participating in our digital event.</li><li><strong>How can I connect with the Knowledge community?</strong><strong><br /> </strong>Connect with other Knowledge attendees who are taking their work to the next level in our <a href="https://community.servicenow.com/community?id&#61;community_forum&amp;sys_id&#61;96295a2ddbd897c068c1fb651f9619d1" rel="nofollow">Knowledge Community</a>.</li><li><strong>Are the Now at Work events still being planned for later in the year?</strong><strong><br /> </strong>Yes! Our Now at Work series will be taking place around the world in late 2020. Visit our <a href="https://www.servicenow.com/now-at-work.html" rel="nofollow">website</a> to sign up for updates.</li><li><strong>Where can I receive updates regarding Knowledge 2021?</strong><strong><br /> </strong>We have already set our sights on Knowledge 2021 in Las Vegas and can’t wait to see you there. If you registered for Knowledge 2020, we will send out a notification when you can learn more about next year’s event.</li></ul>
<p>For further questions please access <a href="https://knowledge.servicenow.com/faq.html" rel="nofollow">https://knowledge.servicenow.com/faq.html</a>.</p>
<p>Trusting that you and your families are keeping healthy and staying safe!</p>
<p>Kind Regards,</p>
<p>Tracy O&#39;Brien</p>