---
title: "Top  Failed Certification Checks"
date: 2017-01-04T04:55:18.000Z
authors: ["Brad Tilton"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=b73ea2addbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961904"
---
<p><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Every application that partners submit to the ServiceNow store goes through a rigorous vetting process called certification. This helps ensure that all of the applications published on the store are stable and architecturally sound. The process involves a large number of automated and some manual tests in areas from scripting to security, and in the past 18 months the certification team has certified more than 200 applications. This means that we have a considerable amount of data around which application checks are consistently passed, but also consistently failed. In order to demystify that process a little bit I'm going to walk through the top 10 most common certification failures and <strong><em>how to prevent them</em></strong>.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><strong>10. Missing Roles for Modules</strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><em>Issue</em>: Some modules do not contain roles and would be visible based on the Application Menu roles. The application might have users with different roles like application admin and application user. </span><br/><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><em>Solution</em>: Review modules and add roles depending on the use case.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><strong>9. Dot walking to sys_id</strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><em>Issue</em>: It is not necessary to include the sys_id of a reference field when dot-walking, as in the following example:</span></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt;">var id = current.caller_id.sys_id; // Wrong</span></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt;">The value of a reference field is a sys_id. When you dot-walk to the sys_id, the system does an additional database query to retrieve the caller_id record, then retrieves the sys_id. This can lead to performance issues.</span></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><em>Solution</em>: Use the following statement based on the documentation found <a href="http://wiki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Coding_Best_Practices#Avoid_Dot-Walking_to_the_sys_id_of_a_Reference_Field" target="_blank"><span style="color: #1155cc;">here</span></a>.</span></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt;">var id = current.getValue('caller_id'); // Right</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><strong>8. Missing ACLs for UI Pages</strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><em>Issue</em>: One or more UI Pages don't contain ACLs and can be force-browsed by unauthorized users.</span><br/><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><em>Solution</em>: Restrict the pages by adding necessary ACLs.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><strong>7. Missing ACLs on Client Callable Script</strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><em>Issue</em>: One of more script includes are marked as client callable &amp; lack the necessary ACLs. These can be misused by unauthorized users on the console/client side. </span><br/><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><em>Solution</em>: Please restrict them by adding an ACL with type is client_callable_script_include and operation is execute for each client callable script include.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><strong>6. Unsafe Jelly Statements</strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><em>Issue</em>: One or more ui macros or ui pages contains unsafe jelly statements that may make them vulnerable to XSS attacks.</span><br/><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><em>Solution</em>: Please ensure "HTML and/or JS escape" for all those jelly statements as appropriate. You can find details <a href="http://wiki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=How_to_Escape_in_Jelly#Jelly_Escaping" target="_blank"><span style="color: #1155cc;">here</span></a>.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><strong>5. Default Homepage Override</strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><em>Issue</em>: One or more homepages would override the default homepage as they don't contain an order or read roles.</span><br/><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><em>Solution</em>: Set appropriate roles and an order greater than 300.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><strong>4. Missing Contact Support Module</strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><em>Issue</em>: There is no module under the application menu with details of support coverage.</span><br/><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><em>Solution</em>: Add a support module in the application so customers know how to access a support contact in case that need arises.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><strong>3. Missing or Inappropriate ACLs on Table</strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><em>Issue</em>: One or more tables is missing the appropriate ACLs and can be force browsed or accessed by inappropriate users.</span><br/><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><em>Solution</em>: Add the necessary ACLs to the table.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><strong>2. Unintended UI List Records</strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><em>Issue</em>: When personalizing a table list view while having an application selected in the application picker, that sys_ui_list record will be saved in in the selected application. If several users do this they will all be saved in the application and this could result in orphaned records or unexpected behavior when users browse to the list view.</span><br/><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><em>Solution</em>: Be careful personalizing lists.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><strong>1. Unconditioned UI Action</strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><em>Issue</em>: UI Actions with an empty condition field can be called by any logged-in user. </span><br/><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><em>Solution</em>: Add conditions to all UI Actions. The condition can be as simple as checking a role or that the user has access to update the current record.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-family: Arial;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">I hope this article</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> gives those partners some extra things to look over and double check when submitting their apps for certification.</span></span></p>