---
title: "Monday Musings on Customer Service January  "
date: 2017-01-09T23:51:04.000Z
authors: ["paulselby"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=605d2629dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96192c"
---
<p>It's still early in January, so the articles, blogs, reports, and postings on resolutions and predicted trends are everywhere. My post today is inspired in particular by a few sources:</p><p></p><p><a href="http://www.forbes.com/sites/shephyken/2017/01/07/10-customer-service-and-customer-experience-cx-trends-for-2017/2/#6d915c4e6ef9" title="http://www.forbes.com/sites/shephyken/2017/01/07/10-customer-service-and-customer-experience-cx-trends-for-2017/2/#6d915c4e6ef9">Ten Customer Service And Customer Experience Trends For 2017</a> </p><p><a href="http://customersthatstick.com/blog/3-areas-to-focus-your-customer-experience-in-2017/" title="http://customersthatstick.com/blog/3-areas-to-focus-your-customer-experience-in-2017/">3 Areas to Focus your Customer Experience in 2017</a> </p><p><a title="stomerthink.com/2017-customer-experience-resolutions/" href="http://customerthink.com/2017-customer-experience-resolutions/">2017 Customer Experience Resolutions</a></p><p></p><p>Each of these articles is worth a read, but I want to zero in on one particular trend for 2017 mentioned in all three: <strong>proactive service</strong>. So what is it, and how do you get started with, and what are the best practices?</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Defining Proactive Service</span></h1><p>Most service centers live in a world of reactive service. Reactive service is best defined at responding to customers' calls, emails, chats, or other attempts to connect with an agent, or even use of another process (self-service, use of knowledge articles, etc.). The customer has experienced a problem and is reacting by seeking a solution. Reactive service is waiting for the phone to ring, so to speak.</p><p></p><p>Proactive service takes a different approach. Rather than waiting for the customer to contact the service center - and even potentially before they realize they might have a problem - they are contacted. This contact might include the actual solution, or it might be that your company is aware of the issue and working actively on a fix and that the customer should stand by for another communication containing the resolution.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Execution</span></h1><p>Sounds easy, right? If that was the case, everyone would be doing it. Companies are starting to. (Do you know what your competitors are doing?)</p><p></p><p>There's three steps to executing on proactive service. Approaches may differ slightly based upon the product or service your company offers, but in a nutshell they are:</p><p></p><ul><li><strong>Recognize Trends</strong> - To start off, you must be identifying and classifying issues coming into your contact center.   From that data, what are the issues resulting in the highest volume of calls, most time spent, or otherwise cost you the most? Are there any that might be company- or brand-damaging? Perhaps there are other metrics you would use to determine which issues are candidates to be solved preemptively - the bottom line is you are always on the lookout for these opportunities. Also, bear in mind that not everything can or should be solved proactively - customers do not want to hear from you on every little issue, because some might not affect them (which can be addressed below in <em>Targeted Response</em>) but you want to avoid the perception of being the boy who cries wolf on every issue.</li><li><strong>Determine Solution</strong> - In this phase, you must ask: what is the best way to solve the problem you have identified? Is it a change in manufacturing? An update to a document or product manual? Can a series of steps be published in a knowledge article for customers to follow? Or is a recall in order? The best solution should be a cost-effective option for your business, so make sure you are engaging across the business for the solution - customer service is the messenger and the focal point for customers, but doesn't always hold the ultimate solution to the root cause of the issue.</li><li><strong>Targeted Response</strong> - It's possible not every customer is or would experience the issue you have identified. Look closely at the demographics and other details of the customers that have raised the issue - is there a unique fingerprint to them? If so, target your response - your notification of an available or pending solution - only to those whom it would apply. The more specific you can be to the customer set you notify, the less likely you are to be accused of crying wolf.</li></ul><p></p><p><span style="color: #e23d39; font-size: 24px; font-weight: bold;">Following Up</span></p><p>While not technically a part of delivering proactive service, following up with customers has two benefits: first, it shows that you care and took the time to check in following your prescribed actions. Second, you learn whether or not you targeted the correct customers and that the solution works. This need not be a call or personal email - sending a simple survey link to "click here if the solution worked" will provide the data you need with minimal customer effort.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">And You?<br/></span></h1><p>Are you already providing proactive service today? What are some examples of situations where you use it? What tips do you have?</p>