---
title: "Human Resources Service Management HRSM  Istanbul Updates Overview"
date: 2017-01-10T22:14:29.000Z
authors: ["juliegardiner"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=865ce6a1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961948"
---
<p><span style="font-size: 12pt; color: black; font-family: calibri,verdana,arial,sans-serif;">Istanbul is available!   The Istanbul release of HR Service Management supports the Human Resource organization's goal of streamlining the interactions employees have with HR while boosting productivity on both ends and elevating the quality of service.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="color: black; font-family: calibri,verdana,arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">In Istanbul, HR Service Management has been rewritten as a scoped application enabling delegated administration. Scoping the app allows HR to lock other fulfillers and administrators out of the HR scope. HR data has additional levels of control separating data from IT users, without compromising the ability to troubleshoot and resolve issues. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="color: black; font-family: calibri,verdana,arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Also new in Istanbul:</span></p><ul><li><span style="font-family: calibri,verdana,arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt; color: #303030;">HR case management has many new features to enhance the HR agent experience.   New categorization for better reporting (COE, Topic Category, Topic Detail &amp; HR Service) has been added to help HR better route, triage and report on HR case metrics.   A new standard "Subject Person" field has been enabled for all cases, allowing you to open a case on behalf of an employee, without them being aware of the case (e.g. in the example of a planned promotion or an employee relations issue). With the fulfillment instruction feature, HR is able to specify specific instructions for the HR agent to fulfill the case, ensuring cases are handled consistently and efficiently.</span></li><li><span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt; font-family: calibri,verdana,arial,sans-serif;">New matching engine for case assignment and escalation to automatically triage cases and escalate from Tier 1 to Tier 2 to Tier 3 as necessary</span></li><li><span style="color: black; font-family: calibri,verdana,arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Employee Portal Improvements:</span><ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li><span style="color: black; font-family: calibri,verdana,arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Improvements to the Suggested Reading and Info widgets to allow access for all employees</span></li><li><span style="color: black; font-family: calibri,verdana,arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Open cases now present with a single view of the case and all associated tasks or parent case and child cases</span></li></ul></li></ul><p></p><p><span style="color: black; font-family: calibri,verdana,arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Please contact your account team to find out more information and schedule a demo to see all that is new in HR Service Management.</span></p>