---
title: "Bridging the Gap Between Istanbul and Your Organization"
date: 2017-01-10T22:17:06.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=2e9d6e69dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961950"
---
<p>The Istanbul release is here!   It's packed with exciting new capabilities that you'll want to get into production as soon as possible.   Which means: it's upgrade time.</p><p></p><p>One thing we've seen from working with customers is that a successful upgrade isn't just about executing the technical steps.   It's also about communicating to your ServiceNow users the improvements delivered in the upgrade.   This step is essential if you want to drive adoption, excitement and, ultimately, value.</p><p></p><p>You might say, "But that sounds like a lot of extra work and I'm not sure I have the time."</p><p></p><p>This is where the ServiceNow Champion Enablement Center comes to the rescue!</p><p></p><p>What is it?</p><p></p><p>The Champion Enablement Center provides, for all customers and authorized partners, templates and guides to get you started on your ServiceNow communications - whether for upgrades, initial rollout, or even for introducing ServiceNow across your enterprise.   It also includes content to help you with managing your ServiceNow program and establishing a governance framework.</p><p></p><p>For the Istanbul release, the center includes the following new content for your use:</p><p></p><ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li><span style="color: #2e74b5;"><strong><a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/community?id=community_article&sys_id=a0dc2665dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961984">Istanbul Communication Package</a></strong></span> — this includes templates for communication planning, banners, emails, posters, messaging and more…</li><li><a _jive_internal="true" href="/community?id=community_article&sys_id=e49ceae1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96195d"><strong>Istanbul Presentation Power Point</strong></a><strong> </strong>— use for images and copy to customize your communications and internal presentations</li></ul><p></p><p>How do you start?   Just access the Champion Enablement Center today at <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/community?id=community_static&sys_id=9bc3be65dbdc5bc0b322f4621f96198f">https://community.servicenow.com/community/champion-enablement</a></p><p></p><p>Access to the Champion Enablement Center is available only to ServiceNow customers and authorized partners.   Note that to access you must be logged in to the ServiceNow Community and you must have your work email address referenced in your ServiceNow Community profile.   If you have questions contact   <a title="ampion.enablement@servicenow.com" href="mailto:champion.enablement@servicenow.com">champion.enablement@servicenow.com</a>.</p><p></p><p>So what are you waiting for? Start your upgrade today and communicate the benefits and capabilities the Istanbul release brings!</p>