---
title: "Resolve Security Incidents Faster with New Integrations and Automation in Istanbul"
date: 2017-01-10T22:14:08.000Z
authors: ["janenec"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=096eaeaddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619ce"
---
<p>ServiceNow Security Operations celebrates its third release with new time-saving features. We've come a long way since the initial release that included Security Incident Response and Vulnerability Response. Last May's Helsinki release added Threat Intelligence and our first out-of-the-box integrations with security vendors (Splunk and Qualys). In the meantime, we've added a number of additional integrations to the ServiceNow store.</p><p></p><p>So what's new in the Istanbul release of Security Operations?</p><p><strong>New integrations</strong> — including Palo Alto Networks, Tanium, and IBM QRadar</p><p><strong>Integration dashboard</strong> — configure third-party security integrations from within ServiceNow</p><p><strong>Email parsing</strong> — create incidents from email alerts without an API integration</p><p><strong>Enrichment data queries</strong> —retrieve running processes or network statistics on an endpoint from ServiceNow</p><p><strong>Automated Indicator of Compromise</strong> <strong>(IoC) lookups</strong> — quickly get threat intelligence or malware scan results</p><p><strong>Orchestration packs</strong> — coordinate a variety of actions with your security products</p><p></p><p>Here's how you could leverage some of these new features. Your endpoint security product detects a potentially malicious email attachment that was downloaded and emails an alert to ServiceNow Security Operations, where transform rules are applied to create a security incident. Security Operations pulls relevant information from the alert to populate IoC fields, including the sender information and file hash.</p><p></p><p>The file hash is automatically sent to Palo Alto Networks WildFire<sup>TM</sup> cloud-based analysis server, and a report is returned and attached to the incident for easy reference. In parallel, Tanium is used to retrieve the affected endpoint's running processes and network statistics. All of this information is gathered in just a few minutes. Now a security analyst can review the data and determine next steps.</p><p></p><p>The report from WildFire says the file in question is in fact malicious. He can also see via network statistics that this file has tried to connect to what may be a command and control server. So the next step will be to block any communication between your network and this malicious server's IP address. The analyst creates a new firewall block request, and once it's approved, the request is sent to Palo Alto Networks Next-Generation Firewall to block any contact with the command and control server.</p><p></p><p>Next the analyst uses Security Operations to query the Microsoft Exchange server for any other copies of this malicious attachment. Two are found, so the analyst remotely deletes them to prevent this infection from spreading.</p><p></p><p>Finally, the analyst needs to remediate the malware on the endpoint. He follows the security runbook processes documented in Security Operations to remove the malicious file and repair the affected system. Once this is complete, the incident is closed and a post-incident review is created.</p><p></p><p>These new features work together to reduce the time an analyst needs to spend switching between consoles or handing off tasks to other teams. By automating threat enrichment activities, <strong>ServiceNow has reduced the time a security analyst spends on research by up to an hour per incident</strong>. This allows the analyst to be more productive. With this latest release, Security Operations continues to provide faster and more efficient security response through organized workflows, correlation, and automation.</p><p></p><p>Check out <a title="w.servicenow.com/lpdem/secops.html" href="http://www.servicenow.com/lpdem/secops.html">DemoNow</a> to see these new features in action.</p>