---
title: "Human Resources Service Management HRSM  HR Case Management Optimization"
date: 2017-01-24T02:06:43.000Z
authors: ["juliegardiner"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=2ded2ee9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619ce"
---
<p><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">The Istanbul release of HR Service Management includes many enhancements to the new scoped application, designed to improve the usability for HR agents who are servicing employees. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">The new features include:</span></p><p></p><ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">HR Administrators need the ability to specify specific instructions for the case worker to fulfill the case. We've added the ability to create fulfillment instructions specific to the HR service, ensuring cases are handled consistently and efficiently. Fulfillment instruction types include:</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">HR cases often need to be opened on behalf of an employee, without them being aware of the case (e.g. in the example of a planned promotion or an employee relations issue). A new filed called "Subject Person" has been added to all HR cases. </span></li><li><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">A new "Source" field on each case will help HR better track and report on the origination of cases (e.g. email, self-service portal, chat or phone call). </span></li><li><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">Each HR Service requires the collection of different information. We've added new functionality to allow an HR case worker to capture service-specific fields directly on the case form and report on them.</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">HR cases need to be easily transferred in the event the case is submitted as a general case and/or is mis-classified upon initiation. Case workers can now transfer the case and assign it to the proper service. This will close the original case and all of its children (tasks or child cases) and open a new case for the selected service. The original case will be referenced in the new service so that the HR agent can easy go back and review it. HR can now easily report on the number of cases that were mis-classified, and use that information for training, business process improvement and communication to employees.</span><ul style="list-style-type: circle;"><li><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">KB Articles: If you have the fulfillment instructions documented in the ServiceNow KnowledgeBase already, you can link the articles to the HR Service</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">Rich Text: You can format and publish instructions in the HR Service itself; this can also be useful if you have the instructions on an external site or KB by including a hyperlink</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">Checklists: You can create a default checklist to appear in call cases for that specific HR Service</span></li></ul></li></ul><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; color: black;">Please contact your account team to find out more information and schedule a demo to see all that is new in HR Service Management.</span></p>