---
title: "Upgrading PA to Helsinki or Istanbul Read this"
date: 2017-01-24T04:02:04.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=697c62e1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96195f"
---
<p>Some of the content from the updated PA content packs may be missing after you upgrade your instance from Geneva or earlier to either Helsinki or Istanbul.   The affected contact packs are</p><ul><li>Performance Analytics - Content Pack - Change Management</li><li>Performance Analytics - Content Pack - Incident Management</li><li>Performance Analytics - Content Pack - Incident SLA Management</li><li>Performance Analytics - Content Pack - Problem Management</li><li>Performance Analytics - Content Pack - Request Management (Requested Item)</li></ul><p></p><h2><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><strong>How do I know if I am missing content?</strong></span></h2><ol><li>Navigate to <strong>Performance Analytics &gt; Breakdowns &gt; Automated Breakdowns</strong>.</li><li>In the Name column, find the <strong>Assigned To</strong> breakdown.<ul><li>If the Assigned To breakdown has a Breakdown source of <strong>Users.Active</strong>, go to step 3</li><li>If you do not see the Assigned To breakdown, your instance qualifies for the content update workaround - proceed to the knowledge article referenced below.</li></ul></li><li>Navigate to <strong>Performance Analytics &gt; Dashboards</strong>.</li><li>In the drop-down list at the top left, look for the <strong>Change Premium</strong> dashboard.<ul><li>If you do NOT have a Change Premium dashboard, your instance qualifies for the content update workaround - proceed to the knowledge article referenced below.</li><li>If you DO have the Change Premium dashboard, you do not need to apply the knowledge article</li></ul></li></ol><p></p><h2><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><strong>I verified that I am missing the content.   How do I get the new content?</strong></span></h2><p>You will need to apply update sets containing the new content.   A knowledge article has been created on HI with instructions and the update set files attached.</p><p></p><p>Please see <a title="i.service-now.com/kb_view.do?sysparm_article=KB0598502" href="https://hi.service-now.com/kb_view.do?sysparm_article=KB0598502">KB0598502</a> for details, instructions, and the necessary update sets.</p>