---
title: "Monday Musings on Customer Service January  "
date: 2017-01-23T09:19:50.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=7dcc2265dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619c8"
---
<p>A colleague, <a title="dangrady510" __default_attr="72596" __jive_macro_name="user" _jive_internal="true" class="jive_macro jive_macro_user" data-orig-content="dangrady510" data-renderedposition="10_88.890625_101_16" href="/community?id=community_user_profile&user=2c129ee1dbd81fc09c9ffb651f9619b6">dangrady510</a>, wrote a great article about <a __default_attr="6365" __jive_macro_name="blogpost" class="jive_macro jive_macro_blogpost" data-orig-content="Context: The ABCs of Performance Analytics" data-renderedposition="10_365.890625_300_16" href="/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=b7bcae25dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619ad" modifiedtitle="true" title="Context: The ABCs of Performance Analytics">Context: The ABCs of Performance Analytics</a> (go give it a read) specific to customer service organizations. This was the third in a series of how context is critical in analytics, with this final entry focusing on the context of <strong>people</strong>. Dan makes the point that using the correct insights to communicate and drive the performance desired at that level of the organization - from customer service executive to front-line agent - is a critical component not only the adoption of analytics, but to drive actual improvement. In addition, those behaviors should stack or drive one another - if the executive level is focused on aggregate summations of customer satisfaction scores and productivity, the customer service agent should also be aware how their actions help promote those results.</p><p></p><p>Analytics can definitely help drive the right behaviors and performance in your customer service organization with some thoughtful consideration going in. Jumping on Dan's bandwagon, I'd like to use his points to build out just one example: a focus on improving service through customer satisfaction (or CSAT) measurement.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Executive Visibility</span><span style="color: #e23d39;"><br/></span></h1><p>At the highest level of the organization, visibility to trends in customer satisfaction (as measured by CSATs) is critical. For the vice president or head of service, they will typically also be drawing additional relationships between CSATs and the rest of the business. Two areas of interest in terms of relationship for CSATs is cost of service and sales. The expectation would be investing in customer service - more people to answer phones, chats, and emails or implementing new technologies - should have a positive impact. Analytics would demonstrage that relationship at the initial point of realization, with (ideally) more improvement over time. Another typical relationship the head of service - as well as the rest of the executive team - would be interested in - is the connection between customer satisfaction and sales. On both an individual customer basis as well as across the customer base, companies are keeping a pulse on CSATs as a leading indicator of customer retention and future sales performance.</p><p></p><p>Outside of the impact CSATs have on operational cost or future revenues, the most important thing the executive level can do is to identify the goal. Do you drive CSATs to a specific number or a percentage improvement? Set the goal and begin to measure.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Operational Effectiveness</span></h1><p>The management level is where the tactical options will be identified and implemented. Similar to the executive level, there are connections between actions and impacts, but with focus on the relationship between the problem areas affecting CSATs and the remedial actions to be taken and their impact.</p><p></p><p>Here, a few possible prescriptive activities come to mind: raising overall staffing levels, examining day-to-day scheduling/coverage against forecasted volumes, and investing in training for knowledge and skills. Start by identifying where the gaps exist as identified. CSAT feedback ("I waited on hold for too long," "my agent didn't seem to know what he was talking about," etc.) can be an excellent source, or look at operational details like average hold time or average handle times. As changes and improvements are made, track the impact this has on CSATs. </p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Agent Impact</span></h1><p>Once the management level has identified areas of improvement, the action plans for the staff roll out. While there is no corresponding metric the agent can monitor for changing the schedule or receiving more training, Dan identified the real meaningful and personal statistics the agent can be monitoring: their current average CSATs, their average compared to peers, and what the customers they work with have been reporting. Making the staff aware of the overall goal - that !0% improvement for the department for the quarter, CSATs to X.X, etc. set at the executive level - is critical to get their buy-in and to demonstrate how their personal contribution is making an impact.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Raising Your Game</span></h1><p>As Dan indicated:</p><p></p><p style="padding-left: 30px;"><em>"In order to be successful, KPIs and metrics need to cascade throughout the organization from the strategic, to operational, to tactical level to keep everyone aligned."</em></p><p></p><p>This couldn't apply more to a customer service organization. The entire service organization must be moving towards shared, measurable customer satisfaction goals, and each level must see how their respective actions affect the overall goal of achieving them.</p><p></p><p>How are you using analytics throughout your organization? How have you aligned frontline activity to executive goals? </p>