---
title: "HR Service Management HRSM  HRSM is Now a Scoped Application"
date: 2017-01-24T02:08:02.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=392d66e5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96198c"
---
<p><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">Because HR departments often need to handle the personal information of their employees, they want more control over HR data stored in ServiceNow, and the autonomy to administer aspects of the system outside of IT. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">With the Istanbul release, we have rewritten HR Service Management as a scoped application with delegated administration. This allows HR to have their own admin. It also gives HR additional levels of control and separates HR data, including personal employee information from IT users, without losing the ability to troubleshoot and resolve issues.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">Scoped roles for both HR case workers and clients of HR (employees, contractors, alumni, and others) grant users access to HR services. Users without an HR scoped role are blocked from viewing HR cases or HR profile information. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">Only the HR System Administrator [sn_hr_core.admin] can assign scoped HR roles. These roles can be assigned to inactive users to create HR cases for new hires and alumni. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">IT System Administrators can still impersonate ServiceNow users. However, when impersonating a user with a scoped HR role, the IT System Administrator is not able to access features granted by that role, including HR cases and profile information. Also, IT System Administrators cannot change the password of any user with a scoped HR role. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">There is no end-of-life date for the original (non-scoped) application. This allows an existing HRSM customer to upgrade to Istanbul without needing to migrate applications. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">All new development and innovation will be within the scoped version of the application and future HRSM releases are planned to include utilities to assist you in the migration process. For many customers, it may be preferable to delay migrating to the scoped application in a later release. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">To evaluate Istanbul, the new scoped application and discuss the migration options available to you, please contact your account team for more information.</span></p>