---
title: "HR Service Delivery On Demand"
date: 2017-01-31T09:12:38.000Z
authors: ["anne_musial"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=6a8da669dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619fd"
---
<p>We are accustomed to being able to access information on demand. With the 24 hour news cycle, smartphones, and social media people are used to sharing knowledge and finding what they are looking for in a matter of seconds. We no longer are reliant on landlines and paper to stay connected up to speed. The digital world has had a substantial impact on life as we know it, and HR organizations are working to adopt new technology to cater to their employees changing expectations. </p><p></p><p>From employee working in manufacturing facilities, corporate employees, virtual workforces, and those out on project sites, no matter the employee population they have one desire: easy and reliable access to information they need. Rarely do employees have a question about benefits or compensation while they are in between meetings. More often than not these questions come up when they are in a physician's office or at dinner with the family. Instead of having to wait until they have access to HR, why not allow them to find their HR answers like they would find an answer to any other question? </p><p></p><p>Our information on demand culture has lead people to wanting to do a quick google search to find answers. When employees cannot do the same to find information they need in relation to their employment it leads to frustration and ultimately lack of confidence in their employer. </p><p></p><p>Mobile access to information is a great way to provide employees access to the information they need. Through having a system of engagement that is available to employees via their smartphone, tablet, or computer, information is at their fingertips when they need it most. In the 2015 HR Transformation Survey done by KPMG 61% of respondents said they were planning on using mobile technology in the future. Mobile technology does not need to be complex, something employees can access from a mobile browser will hold extreme value to the workforce. In enabling a mobile system of engagement HR organizations are able to provide a standardized and consistent level of support for their employees regardless of their role, location, or access to company assets. HR information becomes accessible by those who want it when they need it most, which is a key component of excellent service. </p><p></p><p>How are you using mobile technology to provide on demand HR Service and shape the employee experience?</p><p></p><p></p><p>Related Articles: </p><p><a title="w.forbes.com/sites/jeannemeister/2017/01/05/the-employee-experience-is-the-future-of-work-10-hr-trends-for-2017/#3cc78d742214" href="http://www.forbes.com/sites/jeannemeister/2017/01/05/the-employee-experience-is-the-future-of-work-10-hr-trends-for-2017/#3cc78d742214">The Employee Experience Is The Future of Work: 10 HR Trends for 2017</a></p><p><a title="ww2.deloitte.com/us/en/pages/operations/articles/hr-service-delivery.html" href="https://www2.deloitte.com/us/en/pages/operations/articles/hr-service-delivery.html">The Next Frontier in HR Service Delivery</a></p><p><a title="w.kpmg-institutes.com/content/dam/kpmg/advisory-institute/pdf/2015/hr-transformation-survey-2015.pdf" href="http://www.kpmg-institutes.com/content/dam/kpmg/advisory-institute/pdf/2015/hr-transformation-survey-2015.pdf">2015 KPMG HR Transformation Survey</a></p>