---
title: "Monday Musings on Customer Service January  "
date: 2017-01-31T00:03:09.000Z
authors: ["paulselby"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=e3cce265dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961959"
---
<p>Service or success? What are you providing your customers?</p><p></p><p>In the last few years, the concept of "customer success" has gained traction, initially with many cloud-based companies but its applicability and value has been recognized and employed by companies of all types. Customer success is a formula not only to ensure initial adoption of your products and services, but also forging a long-term and expanding relationship with customers.   </p><p></p><p>Not familiar with customer success? Jump briefly over to a <a title="n.wikipedia.org/wiki/Customer_Success" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Customer_Success">Wikipedia article</a>, check out what the <a title="w.customersuccessassociation.com/definition-customer-success-management/" href="http://www.customersuccessassociation.com/definition-customer-success-management/">Customer Success Association</a> has to say, or what Kate Leggett at Forrester wrote in <a title="ogs.forrester.com/kate_leggett/14-05-15-what_is_customer_success_management_and_why_is_it_important" href="http://blogs.forrester.com/kate_leggett/14-05-15-what_is_customer_success_management_and_why_is_it_important">her blog</a> over two years ago. If you are hungry for more, search around as there's many articles, case studies, and other resources to get you up to speed.</p><p></p><p>Back to the question: which does your company provide?</p><p></p><p>My purpose today is not to layout any sort of framework for migrating to a customer success program, but I would like to examine just a few of possible focus areas and how success differs from service. If you were to change your service in just one or two of these areas, the positive impact that would have on your customers' satisfaction and retention might surprise you.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Random Communications vs. Connected Conversations</span></h1><p>Many service organizations offer a variety of means for customers to contact them: telephone, email, chat, etc. Sometimes those conversations cross channels - while the conversations might start by email inquiry, the customer service agent receiving that intiial email communication might recognize the answer might require many back-and-forth rounds and suggest the customer call the service center. When this happens, is the customer required to recount their issue to the new agent assisting them?</p><p></p><p>An organization practicing customer success ties all conversations together. Through the course of solving an issue with a customer, despite changing communication channels, all dialog - telephone, email, chat, social media, etc. - should automatically be associated to a single case so that any agent stepping into the mix can quickly get up-to-speed. This should not require looking in multiple locations, logging into several disconnected systems, or sending emails to prior agents the customer just happens to remember the names for. This is the power of omnichannel support and a truly connected conversation with your customer.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Answering Questions vs. Providing Solutions</span></h1><p>It's true that companies staff customer service teams to answer questions and resolve issues. There will always be problems - a billing issue, unclear information in a manual, or something has broken are just a few examples. Customer service is the frontline for taking on such issues.</p><p></p><p>Where customer success comes into play is by drawing in the rest of your company in order to address the root cause of those issues. A billing issue should be investigated by your finance department, as it might be something that affects more than just one customer. If there is a problem with the manual, your documentation team needs to be made aware. If products are breaking, is manufacturing aware and evaluating if something is affecting their processes? Customer service should not be a remote island in your company - with a customer success approach, they are engaging the rest of your teams to resolve the core issues and not just providing repeated one-time answers.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Standing By vs. Stepping Up</span></h1><p><span style="color: #303030;">One of the most important aspects of customer service is simply they are there when you need them. As the calls, emails, and chats flow in, your agents are standing by and taking issues on one-at-a-time. I am not saying this should change, but could they be doing more than just waiting for calls and supplying the same answers over-and-over?</span></p><p></p><p><span style="color: #303030;">When customer success is the rule, you are monitoring the patterns in customer issues and looking for the trends: which issues are coming up again-and-again? Practicing customer success mean early recognition of problems that might affect a larger set of your customer base and <span style="color: #303030;">proactively addressing those recurring issues by notifying</span> customers that you are aware, and that a fix is pending or available. Not only is this a delightful experience for customers - to be saved from what might be an impending problem - but it reduces the volume of work in the contact center when customers are given the requisite steps to solve the problem themselves.</span></p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Steps Toward Success</span></h1><p>Even if you were already familiar with customer success, are moving towards it, or have a program in place, you recognize it is no simple transition. Not only does it involve a different approach to providing service, it means engaging the entire company in taking a team approach to customer service. If you have no definite plans to adopt customer success, even using a few of the strategies could make a difference in your business.</p><p></p><p>In what ways have you moved your customer services towards a success model? What types of results are you seeing?</p>