---
title: "Monday Musings on Customer Service February  "
date: 2017-02-07T00:53:01.000Z
authors: ["paulselby"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=edada2a9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961992"
---
<p>I can't seem to go a day with running across news about artificial intelligence (AI) or machine learning. Not only is it everywhere, but it's being pitched as a solution for so many challenges - customer service among them. In today's Musings, I'd like to share some of the most interesting stories and examples I've heard of late.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Making Connections Faster</span></h1><p>In her article <a title="stomerthink.com/how-to-use-artificial-intelligence-to-enhance-customer-experience/" href="http://customerthink.com/how-to-use-artificial-intelligence-to-enhance-customer-experience/">How To Use Artificial Intelligence To Enhance Customer Experience</a>, Margarita Hakobyan discusses using AI not only to interact with customers but also to collect data more quickly and to find patterns in that data. Finding trends in data is not unlike how companies use analytics today, but a fundamental difference is that for analytics to work, there needs to be a model or pattern provided by a human being. AI is ingesting those established models then looking for patterns on its own, much faster than a human could.</p><p></p><p>Where this becomes useful is in solving the root cause of issues. Ms. Hakobyan tells the story of the "talk around the water cooler" over the course of several days. Eventually in those conversations someone would notice a pattern about the recurring problems everyone was encountering. AI has the potential to perform more real-time inspection of data on an ongoing basis, bypassing days of data collection and one-off analysis to find the trends and get to the heart of the matter. Depending upon the sophistication of the AI, it could even prescribe the changes necessary to address the core problem that is generating all the traffic into the service center.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Adding a Robot to the Team</span></h1><p>Recently it was announced that <a title="w.servicenow.com/company/media/press-room/servicenow-acquires-dxcontinuum.html" href="http://www.servicenow.com/company/media/press-room/servicenow-acquires-dxcontinuum.html">ServiceNow had acquired DxContinuum</a>, a machine-learning company. You're probably wondering what does machine learning have to do with service management? Quite a bit, actually. One big example is workflow: laid out by a human, it helps move tasks in a rapid and orderly fashion around an organization to completion. With machine learning, ServiceNow can can build upon its current intelligent case routing (workflow) capabilities: DxContinuum's technology could interpret the nature of the customer's issue, set the category for the inquiry, and assign the case to the appropriate agent. A statically-defined workflow isn't necessary.</p><p></p><p>Sounds great, but let's take that even further. What if for a customer's case, DxContinuum's technology already recognizes the issue and is able to bypass an agent entirely? The case could be assigned directly to another team for resolution - because, done correctly, customer service is a team sport that engages the entire company in diagnosis and solution. This would not only reduce costs, but also speed time-to-resolution - and faster resolution times drives higher customer satisfaction.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Profiled Service</span></h1><p><a title="onsumerist.com/2017/01/06/calling-customer-service-an-ai-is-picking-the-agent-thats-best-for-you/" href="https://consumerist.com/2017/01/06/calling-customer-service-an-ai-is-picking-the-agent-thats-best-for-you/">Calling Customer Service? An AI Is Picking The Agent That's "Best" For You</a> by Kate Cox covers the work of Afiniti, a company using AI and its own algorithms to match customers to customer service agents. Using publicly available data (sourcing information from social media and other online sites, purchasing data from third parties, and using data from prior customer service interactions), Afiniti is able to build a profile of the customer. Likewise, a profile is built on customer service agents at the companies Afiniti serves. As calls, emails, and chats flow into the service center, customer and agent profiles are matched to provide the most favorable outcome, be that the best possible service interaction or selling more product.</p><p></p><p>As the article states, the caution here is around prejudice and discrimination entering into the mix. There's also a strong potential for backlash against companies using Affinity's services if customers feel there's some invasion of privacy and social manipulation taking place. Time will tell if this is accepted and becomes the norm.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">AI in Your Company</span></h1><p>If your company isn't already employing AI and machine learning around the business, it's probably only a matter of time. Has customer service come into that conversation? In what ways are you considering using this type of technology to service customers?</p>