---
title: "Pink Ohio State University Keeps Their Buckeyes on the Future with ServiceNow"
date: 2017-02-15T00:45:54.000Z
authors: ["gbeau"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=76aca625dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961933"
---
<p><span style="font-size: 9.5pt; font-family: Arial; color: black;">If there's anything certain in today's IT reality, it's that change <span class="hidden-session-details">is constant. As IT service expectations continue to expand, selecting a platform that has the flexibility and breadth to accommodate growth is a must. That fundamental principal was the key driver at Ohio State University when they selected ServiceNow as their ITSM solution of choice for their immediate needs and Service Management platform for their long-term goals.</span></span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 9.5pt; font-family: Arial; color: black;">Bob Gribben, Director of Service Operations at Ohio State University will share their story at Pink17, the 21<sup>st</sup> Annual International IT Service Management Conference &amp; Exhibition in Las Vegas, NV. Bob will discuss some of the early lessons learned from their initial ServiceNow implementation and how they were ultimately able to modernize their service delivery model across the organization. Bob will also review the continual service improvement approach they fostered at Ohio State through multiple waves of IT expansion and new service offerings over the past eight years, powered by the ServiceNow platform at every step of their journey. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 9.5pt; font-family: Arial; color: black;">Pink17 attendees can join Bob's lunch-and-learn session on Tuesday, February 21 at 11:45. Attendees are encouraged to meet with ServiceNow, a Platinum sponsor, at our booth for a personalized demonstration from one of our experts or attend an in-booth theater presentation highlighting new and innovative ways to manage work faster, gain better insight into services and modernize the user experience.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 9.5pt; font-family: Arial; color: black;">For additional details on the Pink17 conference, please visit </span><a href="https://www.pinkelephant.com/en-US/Pink17/Home"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt; font-family: Arial;">https://www.pinkelephant.com/en-US/Pink17/Home</span></a><span style="font-size: 9.5pt; font-family: Arial; color: black;"> </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 9.5pt; font-family: Arial; color: black;">Hope to see you there! </span></p>