---
title: "Monday Musings on Customer Service February  "
date: 2017-02-13T23:50:25.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=b11d22e5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96192b"
---
<p>If you follow developments in customer service and you are looking for ways to improve service while maintaining or even reducing costs, you have no doubt heard about the concept of automating common service requests as much as possible by offering self-service options for your customers from your service website. I have written about it Monday Musings a few times. </p><p></p><p>So are you doing it?</p><p></p><p>Not only does automation save your organization time and money and allow your agents to focus on more complex issues, but it can move the customer satisfaction needle. Why? Because customers prefer it, according to <a title="ogs.forrester.com/kate_leggett/16-01-28-online_self_service_dominates_yet_again_why_its_an_effortless_way_to_get_to_your_answers" href="http://blogs.forrester.com/kate_leggett/16-01-28-online_self_service_dominates_yet_again_why_its_an_effortless_way_to_get_to_your_answers">Forrester's research.</a> They can receive a solution without waiting for an agent and get on with their day - anytime, anywhere.</p><p></p><p>So you put the work in, and it is now an option for customers. Now what? Let's talk about the maintenance involved in keeping your self-service healthy and thriving.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Measure and Report Usage</span></h1><p>Why did you implement automation in the first place? Was it to save money and time, or to raise customer satisfaction? And what was your goal? Using your baseline prior to implementing, measure your progress against those goals. Minimally, areas to measure include:</p><p></p><ul><li>Usage by individual solution and also in aggregate</li><li>Customer satisfaction from those using self-service (options: a short survey at the end or via email if you have that information)</li></ul><p></p><p>Also of interest are what types of solutions customers are searching your website for, and how much navigation (search, review results, search again, etc.) is required by the customer.</p><p></p><p>Be sure to share that progress. Let the rest of your organization know how this strategy is working. Measuring also becomes important for some of the other maintenance you should be performing.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Review and Streamline</span></h1><p>Just like your business, your automated solutions are not static. Periodically review them. A Knowledgebase article, for example, might be tied to a current product release, but when that product is updated or another product replaces it, how does the prescribed process change? Is there a more efficient way to ensure the same result?</p><p></p><p>Business processes and connected systems might also change in the background and unbeknownst to you. Are you periodically testing self-service solutions that fire off backend processes? Are the expected results occurring or is the process failing somewhere? It's all too common for changes and improvements occurring elsewhere in the business to create some havoc with customer self-service. This is critical to periodically validate, so that customers' requests don't turn to vapor somewhere along the way to completion.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Curate</span></h1><p>This goes hand-in-hand with the prior step of validating each self-service option still functions as intended. Is an automated solution no longer valid due to a product end-of-life? Are you finding from your periodic reporting that a solution is no long used? Or in reviewing your available options, do some just simply no longer make sense to offer?</p><p></p><p>Sweep those self-service options out of the way! A lengthy catalog of solutions is more challenging for your customer to browse, and lengthy and vague search results may cause them to choose incorrect solutions. The more challenging and frustrating it is for your customer to use self-service, the less likely they are to attempt to use it in the future.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">In Conclusion</span></h1><p>Customer self-service and automation are a great addition to servicing your customers. It's clear customers expect you to provide them, and providing solutions online to customers around the clock reduces the workload on your service team. Just bear in mind your company and service are dynamic, and just like the other tools you use to deliver service, you must keep a regular maintenance schedule even with self-service. Periodically check each solution for validity and that its desired outcome is still as intended, and report on and review results to get a sense of the big picture and verify you are still delivering against your goals. Your ongoing care and feeding of self service will help ensure you are satisfying your customers in the most efficient means possible.</p>