---
title: "Monday Musings on Customer Service February  "
date: 2017-02-28T00:22:24.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=f02d26e5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961931"
---
<p>Over this past weekend, my teenage son decided to splurge some of his hard-earned money on a weatherproof Bluetooth speaker for himself. He's very much into music and has multiple sets of headphones to enjoy his tunes already. He's also a very active kid, and lacrosse season has begun, with Monday through Thursday practices outdoors in the biting cold and sideways rain we enjoy here (with the occasional weekend workouts he does solo). Were it possible to fit headphones underneath his helmet (and if his coach allowed it), I'm sure my son would do it but this purchase was to ensure safe and compliant lacrosse practices with a nice soundtrack in the background. (He's assuming his teammates will share his taste in music.)</p><p></p><p>He had done his research and found what he believed to be a quality speaker available at the local discount retailer and it was currently $50 off - sounds like a great deal, right? He made the purchase and returned home, ready to pair his phone to the speaker and have booming tunes from the sidelines come Monday's practice. This would normally be the end of the story.</p><p></p><p>Unfortunately, that is not how things played out. Upon arriving home and reading into the meager instructions included, the unit did not appear to be charging. After assuring my son that every wall outlet in our house was probably not to blame, we also followed the directions to perform a factory reset - still no-go on the charging. We did our best to repackage the speaker and headed to the retailer to make an exchange. </p><p></p><p>As we arrive at the store, I start to observe how the customer service aspect of this plays out and also think about what could (and should) be happening in the background. We obviously need a solution, but I also think about how the service provided could be further optimized and this problem avoided in the future.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Collecting Telemetry</span></h1><p>The device had failed and it was pretty clear from the directions it was not functioning as designed. Despite the company's request in their leaflet-manual to contact them first with any questions or issues, it was the weekend and my son was eager to use his speaker. At the store, we approached the customer service desk and asked to do an exchange.</p><p></p><p>We'll pause here in the story to talk about what would be possible for the manufacturer. Ideally, on a regular basis, they are collecting information from all of this retailer's store locations, as well as others in their sales distribution channels. What are the reasons customers are returning their devices - not just the one in our story, but everything across their entire product line? Because the manufacturer is using retail channels to sell their wares, this sort of information from the field is critical for their business to help them make decisions.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Analyzing The Failure</span></h1><p>Still at the customer service counter, we were asked the reason for the return. We indicated the unit didn't seem to charge - per the device's literature, an orange light would illuminate when the AC charger was plugged in, indicating charging activity and that was not occurring. We also told the customer service person about the failed factory reset. </p><p></p><p>This exchange created some useful data for the manufacturer to consider. We were not returning the device because we found the sound quality lacking, the weight excessive, or the case design unappealing; this was a product failure. Also, that product failure wasn't due to overheating or a blown speaker, it was a charging issue. Besides this telemetry from the customer, the speaker company has other data available behind the scenes: the manufacturing lot, where it was constructed (if they use outside manufacturing), the type and manufacturer of third-party components like the battery, and more. Looking at the reported product failures they have over the current period of time, they can begin to determine if there is a larger issue at hand as well as start to zero-in on where the specific issue is arising from.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Making It Right</span></h1><p>With our story told, the customer service agent did all the right things: apologized for the inconvenience and asked if we wanted to return the speaker and receive a refund or exchange it for another. Believing this situation to be a fluke, we opted for the exchange. At that point, the customer service agent called back to the electronic department to have a new speaker brought to the front of the store. Within minutes, we were walking out of the store, new speaker in hand and headed home.</p><p></p><p>While this return trip to the store was a minor inconvenience, it was nonetheless an inconvenience. Had we chosen to contact the manufacturer directly about this issue as they had requested in their manual, they would have likely taken a similar course in terms of an exchange, but at the added cost of time while we waited for the new unit (plus additional inconvenience to us as I assume they would want the defective device returned to them). I would hope they would take things a step further as a result of that added inconvenience - extending the warranty (which I told my son, given our initial experience, will be critical to register for) or sending a free accessory. I'm not asking for a handout, but given the competition and available options in this product category, it would have been just as easy to consider another option.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Happy Ending</span></h1><p>I know you're wondering how speaker #2 worked. Once plugged in, that reassuring orange light came on and all was good. Within minutes, eighties hits were filling the house. (Yes, I raised my son with the right taste in music.)</p><p></p><p>While my son's situation might have been an isolated case, I would hope that behind the scenes some means of performing a process like the analysis I described would be occurring. Without the benefit of relaying the details of this and other experiences, the speaker company runs the risk of ongoing failures and hits to its reputation and brand. Whatever their selling model and the barriers separating them from the customer, companies should seek to make gather information to remove friction by analyzing customer-reported problems for the opportunity to improve processes and prevent future customers from experiencing issues. This approach saves costs by detecting and fixing problems sooner, reducing product returns, and makes product quality improvements possible to drive increases in brand perception and loyalty - and loyal customers buy more.</p>