---
title: "How could cognitive computing enhance HR Case Management"
date: 2017-02-24T20:10:07.000Z
authors: ["davidkwock"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=1e5ce6a1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961949"
---
<p>Have you ever had to call or log a request with your HR department?   How long did it take to get an answer to your request.   Behind the scenes if your organization is using ServiceNow for HR Case management there is a structured business process and workflow answering your request.   So how can the business outcome be enhanced by Cognitive Computing?   When cognitive computing capabilities and Artificial intelligence is applied to business processes like HR case management, enterprises are able to achieve the Lightspeed enterprise faster at larger scale.   Today ServiceNow focuses on six key areas of cognitive computing that can enhance the lightspeed enterprise:</p><p></p><ul><li>Robotic Automation</li><li>Correlation</li><li>Prediction</li><li>Routing and Logging</li><li>Virtual Agent</li><li>Search</li></ul><p></p><p>So what does a cognitive computing enhanced HR Case Management solution look like for the lightspeed enterprise?</p><p></p><h3>Description:</h3><p>This example shows how a large Financial Services Company enabled their employees to have a conversation with their insurance providers through leveraging a cognitive agent which provides information about group disability insurance to the employees.</p><h3></h3><p></p><h3>Business Challenges:</h3><ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li>Lack of information and communications leads to wrong decision making</li><li>Millennials need a different way of consuming information.</li><li>HR is challenged in passing information to employees</li></ul><p></p><h3>Leveraged Use Cases:</h3><h4>Smart Routing, Event Correlation and Predictive Problem and Event Management:</h4><p>Cognitive Agent interprets semantics of requests and automatically, classifies, prioritizes, clusters and assigns appropriate fulfillers.   In addition, routing algorithm learns from any corrects made by fullfillers.   Finally, cognitive agent correlates request with other inbound requests and incidents and associates proper business service.</p><p></p><h3>Business Outcome Summary</h3><ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li>Improved information and communications leads to good decision making</li><li>Millennials provided an innovative way of consuming information.</li><li>HR is successfully passes information to employees</li></ul><p></p><p>Want to see a demo of this live...   <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2gpsOcqcMsc" title="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2gpsOcqcMsc">HR BOB (Alpha) ServiceNow Demo Video - YouTube</a> </p>