---
title: "Monday Musings on Customer Service February  "
date: 2017-02-20T06:39:50.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=5ecd62e9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96195d"
---
<p>At ServiceNow, we often describe customer service as being a "team sport." But what exactly do we mean by that?</p><p></p><p>Simple - providing service to customers should not be a practice limited to a small set of people within a company. Put another way, customer service should not be the only player on the field. All departments share the responsibility of providing the highest levels of service to customers when there's a problem, no matter what that involves because customer service doesn't have all the answers nor can they always deliver the solution that's needed. Certainly it is customer service's role to be the face and voice of the company to the customer, but equally important is that customer service brings other departments "onto the field" to assist in providing that service. How do you do that? Allow me to explain by continuing with this sports analogy using American football. (Apologies to non-sports fans or those not familiar with American football.)</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Quarterbacking the Service</span></h1><p>That quarterback is the most important player on the field. Once they take possession of the ball, they are responsible for advancing the ball and, ultimately, putting points on the board. They are the playmaker. But they can't always do this alone. They might have a spectacular running game, but the situation on the field doesn't always make that possible. And the ball moves downfield a lot faster when it's passed, and passed to someone who can run, run fast, and score.</p><p></p><p>When it comes to handling customer issues - problems, inquiries, and such - customer service is the quarterback. An agent takes possession of an issue from the customer, and we'll call the issue the ball. To satisfy the customer - which is to say, score - they need to solve this problem. When this is a problem they've been trained to answer or have prior experience with this is easy - they are running the ball themselves. But when the issue goes beyond their skills? Time to rely on the rest of the team. But before we talk about the other players, let's talk playbook.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Building the Playbook</span></h1><p>Just like the quarterback, the customer service agent needs to have their plays. When they don't have an answer, they need to get the problem to someone who can answer it. In this case, plays are how the problem is handed over to another player. Who makes up the plays? The coach. And who is the coach in our analogy?</p><p></p><p>The coach represents the leadership team in customer service. They are working with other departments in the organization, such as manufacturing, finance, engineering, and others (the offensive line coaches) to establish and maintain relationships and procedures to make the play (or solution) possible. <span style="background-color: #f6d5d9;">E</span>veryone must be onboard with the plays: that's to say establishing the contacts between departments and the processes for how they will work together to be effective. Just as plays in a playbook lose effectiveness, those procedures will need periodic review and revision.With that accomplished, the team must understand the execution of the plays through training, practice, and use; otherwise, the team will fail.</p><p></p><p>With the plays ready, the team must understand the execution of the plays. A football team gets to that point through training, practice, and use and the same is true for customer service.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Playing as a Team</span></h1><p>Let's get back on the field!</p><p></p><p>All the players have practiced the plays and have them committed to memory. With the ball or issue in our customer service quarterback's hands, they are reading the field (or in this case considering the customer's issue). If it's not a running play or something they can immediately solve, they are looking to connect with their running backs, tight ends, and wide receivers (the other departments that can solve the problem). Getting the ball to the right player means advancing towards a solution; get it to the wrong player, and there's no movement and the soluiton is delayed or fumbled for the customer.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Winning the Game</span></h1><p>In football, players must know the plays from an established playbook and work together if they hope to have a chance of scoring. While each player has a specific set of skills and a role to play, none of them can go at it alone. This is exactly how service must be delivered: customer service takes possession of the issue, and either answers the question outright or collaborates with the department most qualified to deliver a solution. Only by making customer service a team sport - engaging all departments with customer service taking the lead position - can you deliver the most effective and highest quality customer service and win.</p>