---
title: "Monday Musings on Customer Service March  "
date: 2017-03-06T07:38:31.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=85ecea65dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619a5"
---
<p>In the <a title="Monday Musings on Customer Service (February 20, 2017)" __default_attr="6455" __jive_macro_name="blogpost" class="jive_macro jive_macro_blogpost" data-orig-content="Monday Musings on Customer Service (February 20, 2017)" data-renderedposition="10_46.890625_387_16" href="/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=5ecd62e9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96195d">Monday Musings on Customer Service (February 20, 2017)</a>, I shared how, when using a service management approach, customer service becomes a "team sport." Using a sports analogy, I discussed how different parts of the organization contribute different capabilities and skills to the team, resulting in improved customer service.</p><p></p><p>If customer service is a team sport, the natural question, then, is who are you playing against? Who is the opposing team? This week, I'd like to wade into that topic. Let's discuss some of the forces working against customer service as a team sport.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Departmental Barriers</span></h1><p>Teams are comprised of many people, people who play together. United, they work collectively. Divided, there is greater challenge, failure, and defeat.</p><p></p><p>In business, there can be barriers between departments preventing them from working in harmony. It could as simple as a failure to communicate between departments. It might be attitudes and perceptions people have about other departments. Or, in the worst case, it might be outright friction.</p><p></p><p>To build a cohesive team, the barriers must be broken down and removed. Across groups within a company, the shared value of improving the customer experience must be recognized and shared as a common goal - and the means to get there is through cooperation and teamwork. This can be driven from the top, laterally across departments by customer service, or a combination of the two but it's an ongoing action that must take place to make the team sport culture thrive.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Poor Processes</span></h1><p>With people comes process. Process is defined as<span style="background-color: #f6d5d9;">:</span></p><p></p><ol><li>a systematic series of actions directed to some end</li><li>a continuous action, operation, or series of changes taking place in a definite manner</li></ol><p></p><p>In business, I would add that processes are built to <strong>accomplish a goal</strong>. </p><p></p><p>Unfortunately, processes might be crafted in silos - silos that are looking to only accomplish goals within their own department, or worse, not considering the bigger picture and the impact to customers. Yes, processes need to be efficient, but not at the cost of the customer.</p><p></p><p>When the rest of the team - those departments outside customer service - have crafted a policy or process and neglected to see how it doesn't put the customer first, customer service is ground zero when that process fails or harms the customer. When that happens, they must respect the input and advice of customer service to review the process and work collectively to make improvements.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Customer Service Itself</span></h1><p>Don't let the greatest detractor to the team sport spirit be your company's face to the customer.</p><p></p><p>Most of your service is delivered by your agents. Are they empathetic to problems? Do they treat customers friendly? Are they knowledgeable of your products and services? Monitor agent calls and chats and periodically have others - not you - "secret shop" your customer service. There is always room for individual and group improvement.</p><p></p><p>More and more, customers prefer to help themselves, all hours of the week. Do you have other service delivery methods in place, like self-service? Do they deliver the customers' desired outcome? </p><p></p><p>Don't forget to survey, survey, survey! Don't just ask customers about their last service experience, ask how they want to be served: contact channels, self-service options, knowledgebase articles, communities, etc.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Winning The Game</span></h1><p>In the game of customer service, winning means overcoming the barriers in people and process within your company and moving everyone towards a more customer-centric approach to the business. Sounds easy, right? Back to football analogies, that's what we'd call a "fourth down and inches to go" situation. What seems so close and attainable can have great obstacles ahead. As every new product or service launches, every business reorganization occurs, and every change in personnel takes place, setbacks may result. In sports, even the teams that seem to have it all going on are always working to maintain that performance, just as your company can by maintaining focus and always striving to deliver customer service as a team sport.</p>