---
title: "Monday Musings on Customer Service March  "
date: 2017-03-13T22:14:32.000Z
authors: ["paulselby"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=398ce6e1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961976"
---
<p>Welcome to part three of my continuing series discussing customer service as a team sport.At ServiceNow, we describe customer service as best delivered when all departments are on the team and working together to deliver and improve service to the customer - hence team sport.   I began this series on</p><p></p><p>At ServiceNow, we describe customer service as best delivered when all departments are on the team and working together to deliver and improve service to the customer - hence team sport.   I began this series on <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=5ecd62e9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96195d">February 20, 2017</a> by introducing this concept, using an American football analogy. The series continued on <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=85ecea65dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619a5">March 6</a>, discussing who the opposing team is. This week, I'd like to discuss some of the equipment you might use.</p><p></p><p>Every sport is played with some form of gear. The game might require a ball or racquet for play. More physical sports necessitate the use of protective equipment. Even solo sports like running demand a great pair of shoes. Sports require equipment in order to be played by the rules, maintain safety, or to improve performance. Customer service as a team sport is no different. Let's take a look at some of the gear you might take onto the field. </p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Efficient Task Assignment</span></h1><p>When your service organization is contacted by a customer, in most cases the issue is something that simply requires an answer and the customer goes on their way. There are times, however, when the issue falls outside of customer service: it's something they don't have an answer for and they certainly cannot solve during their exchange with the customer without further research or input from another part of the company. This is the basis for customer service as a   team sport: involving other parts of the organization. But what is the best way to engage with them?</p><p></p><p>Let's use an example. Assume a customer is contacting you because the product is failing and it's due to a production defect. The service organization at a company practicing customer service as a team sport would bring the issue to the attention of manufacturing or engineering. But how is this done efficiently and effectively, using the right equipment? Rather than manually emailing a spreadsheet to someone who might no longer work at the company, problems are assigned and managed via <strong>workflow</strong>. The use of workflow ensures the right people are involved in solving the problem through proper routing and assignment. In addition, the issue's status can be monitored every step of the way, from initial report through case closure. Workflow is a powerful vehicle in the game even outside of task assignment, which you'll see why as you continue reading. Take time to regularly maintain workflows to ensure they support facilitating issues correctly around your organization. </p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Sharing Knowledge</span></h1><p>What about situations when an issue isn't necessarily a product defect, or if there's an interim set of workaround steps customers can follow until their product or service can be fixed or replaced? </p><p></p><p>Another piece of equipment in the team locker is a <strong>knowledgebase</strong>. Knowledge articles make it possible to share learnings or solutions the customer can access anytime, anywhere. Comprehensive knowledgebases go beyond product information, including information about any topic your service center fields calls, emails, or chats about. And in the spirit of team sport, other parts of your organization can contribute to the articles, ensuring the information or corrective measures are accurate. Keep the knowledgebase thriving and popular with customers through regular edits to popular articles (and manage this process using workflow), archiving those no longer relevant, and providing a robust search and filtering capability to ensure the correct results show up.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Automating Service</span></h1><p>When a solution involves more than just providing information or instructions, go beyond the knowledgebase with <strong>automated customer service</strong>. Like the knowledgebase, it speeds customers getting to resolution by providing an alternative to contacting customer service for common issues. Capabilities like service catalogs deliver a library of solutions by routing the customer issue directly to where it can be addressed.</p><p></p><p>Does a customer need a replacement manual? A form can collect any needed details from them and route the request (hello again, workflow) directly to fulfillment. Update needed to billing information for ongoing services? Capture the details online and pass it directly to the finance department. These are only a few examples of how the team can automate common requests and streamline customer service delivery. Like the knowledgebase, periodically curate your library of automated requests to ensure they match with the types of requests you receive from customers and they are routing correctly to the proper solutions or team members. </p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Your Equipment</span></h1><p>Any sport requires certain equipment to play. In addition, when a team takes to the field, they know their gear well and use it to maximum effectiveness to win. </p><p></p><p>If you are striving to engage your entire company in customer service, consider what equipment you are bringing to the game. The right equipment will make it a lot easier to engage with other departments and "play," and that engagement increases your likelihood of driving greater customer satisfaction. </p>