---
title: "PTC Gets Visibility and Control of their AWS Environment"
date: 2017-03-09T21:35:59.000Z
authors: ["Deaddin Edris"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=3fada6a9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619a5"
---
<p><span style="color: black; background-color: white;">PTC Cloud Services, a $1.1B provider of cloud services, focuses on helping its 26,000 international customers transform their businesses and become more profitable. In many ways, PTC is a prototypical example of a Service Provider that uses ServiceNow, and the challenges that it has faced are ones that ServiceNow routinely helps its customers to solve.</span></p><p style="background: white;"></p><p style="background: white;"><span style="color: black;">With this large customer base and the rapid adoption of AWS, PTC was faced with obstacles to ensure they could maintain their growth and ensure that their services were helping drive increased profits to their organization.</span></p><p style="background: white;"></p><p style="background: white;"><span style="color: black;">In order to ensure business continuity and service availability for their customers, PTC initially tried to use a mix of manual processes and disconnected tools to manage their AWS environment. According to Tameem Hourani, Senior Director of Cloud Services at PTC, change requests to their cloud services represented a painful process. "The approach didn't scale. We got change requests through our help desk and our CRM system, as well as from our business development managers and salespeople. We had dozens of changes every week, but we only managed to track about five percent of these. We had no visibility".</span></p><p style="background: white;"></p><p style="background: white;"><span style="color: black;">Additionally, costs related to their service offerings were hard to track, which left Hourani and team with a frustrating lack of visibility into which services were driving profits and which ones were costing them too much to run.</span></p><p style="background: white;"></p><p style="background: white;"><span style="color: black;">That's when PTC decided to work with ServiceNow to transform how they managed their cloud services. The ServiceNow team rolled up their sleeves and, working closely with the PTC IT team, were able to advance to the point of managing change requests related to their cloud services in an efficient manner, with full visibility and control of their AWS environment. According to Hourani, "We've been impressed with how easily ServiceNow integrated into our AWS environment. We now have complete visibility and control of the cloud-based services we offer our customers—allowing us to enhance service quality while managing profitability."</span></p><p style="background: white;"></p><p style="background: white;"><span style="color: black;">To learn more, read the full case study <a title="w.servicenow.com/content/dam/servicenow/documents/case-studies/cs-ptc-transforming-management.pdf" href="http://www.servicenow.com/content/dam/servicenow/documents/case-studies/cs-ptc-transforming-management.pdf">HERE</a>.</span></p>