---
title: "Monday Musings on Customer Service March  "
date: 2017-03-20T22:00:42.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=9e3daae5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619fe"
---
<p style="font-family: arial, sans-serif; color: #666666;">At ServiceNow, we talk a lot about how the best customer service as being delivered as a "team sport" - that is, providing service to customers should not be a practice limited only to one defined department in your company. <span style="color: #666666; font-family: arial, sans-serif;">Customer service can respond to the call, email, or chat but they can't solve the core problem in all circumstances. That's where other departments - manufacturing, engineering, finance, etc. - need to be a part of the team </span>delivering the solution that's needed, and solving the core issue so that other customers don't experience it.</p><p style="font-family: arial, sans-serif; color: #666666;"></p><p>This week I'm concluding my four-part series on delivering customer service as a team sport. To recap, we covered:</p><p></p><ul><li>What it means to deliver <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=5ecd62e9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96195d">customer service as a team sport</a></li><li>Who the <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=85ecea65dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619a5">opposition</a> is</li><li>What <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=398ce6e1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961976">equipment</a> to take on the field</li></ul><p></p><p>What's left? All games have rules so let's crack open the rule book this week.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Connected Departments</span></h1><p>Playing as a team starts with forming the team. Customer service is unfortunately often an island, working on its own. To deliver as a team, we must agree to play as a team. To that end, bridges must be built to bring other departments onto the team ... and there is more than one type of bridge to consider.</p><p></p><p>The first bridge is political in nature. To begin with, you must ask if customer service has good relationships with the rest of the organization. While they might not be working closely with other departments - yet - are there any tensions that exist? This might be the most challenging part of building the team. And this isn't a permanent bridge by any means. It requires ongoing maintenance and nurturing to ensure it stays functional and holds the team together as players come and go and as the business itself goes through changes.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Using Equipment Properly</span></h1><p>The second bridge comes from the equipment we discussed last week. Sports that have gear also have rules governing the use of that gear. We have to not only ensure the equipment is used properly and effectively in the game, but also avoid situations of "high sticking" or other infractions. </p><p></p><p>The use of workflow ensures a formal process and movement of issues from customer service into other parts of your organization. Workflow, in place of email, create a precise, repeatable process and ensures the correct people are involved every step of the way. Because tasks must be accepted, worked, and returned to the stream on their way to resolution, any sort of holdup or detour can be readily identified. Likewise, the process can be audited for future improvement opportunities.</p><p></p><p>The entire team must be familiar with and willing to use workflow when working through customer issues. This isn't an attempt to eliminate the use of email! The point is when customer issues are being triaged and assigned, if your team is working outside of the workflow, not only are they not using the right equipment, but they are breaking the rules of team sport customer service!</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Discussions and Decisions</span></h1><p>The final rule has to do with determining the proper outcome for a customer issue. Every solution is not created equal!</p><p></p><p>With the impact to the customer always first in mind, rigorous review and debate should surround issues to determine the right course to fix them.   In addition to the customer's needs, the effects any solution might have to the company and the team involved must also be weighed. To fix or not to fix - is a part or entire product replacement in order, or is a workaround possible for now, with future releases or runs of a product fixing the issue during production? This is the debate that must happen to ensure both the highest level of customer satisfaction, a reasonable course of action for the company, and mutual, cross-departmental satisfaction (remember, we need to maintain that bridge).</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Do You Have What It Takes?</span></h1><p>In four conversations, we have discussed what a team sport approach to customer service is, who it is you're playing against, what equipment is needed to play, and the rules of the game. Does your company use the team sport method? While there is some orchestration involved, the payoff is huge in terms of a higher degree of engagement between customer service and other departments capable of addressing the root cause of issues, the resulting improvements in product quality and brand perception, and better service to the customer. If you haven't engaged your entire company in customer service, isn't it time?</p>