---
title: "What is HR Service Management"
date: 2017-03-24T00:20:49.000Z
authors: ["klovely"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=befc66a5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961999"
---
<p style="margin-bottom: 12.0pt;"><strong style="color: black; font-size: 14.0pt; font-family: Arial;">What Exactly is Service Management? </strong></p><p style="margin-bottom: 12.0pt;"><span style="font-size: 14.0pt; font-family: Arial; color: black;">Your HR organization most likely has systems for managing employee data and pay-related activities. However, you probably don't have an automated system to handle employee inquiries and to fulfill these requests. For example, do you still rely on physical paperwork or a string of emails to deal with an employee's jury duty request? </span></p><p style="margin-bottom: 12.0pt;"><span style="font-size: 14.0pt; font-family: Arial; color: black;">That's what service management does. It doesn't just replace email — it transforms</span>&#8232;<span style="font-size: 14.0pt; font-family: Arial; color: black;">the way you engage with employees. Think of it as the perfect combination of administrative assistant and project manager. It responds instantly to employee requests, progresses cases, automates repeatable manual processes, and even manages complex cross-departmental activities such as employee onboarding. Service management never forgets or makes mistakes, always follows up with people so things get done, and lets you know if there's a problem it can't solve. It also shows you where your people spend their time — so you can optimize resource deployment and maximize productivity. Service management doesn't replace your current HCM system — it integrates with it and complements it, giving you visibility and control of the work you probably do mostly via email today. </span></p>