---
title: "Monday Musings on Customer Service March  "
date: 2017-03-26T02:18:20.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=5e6c6ea1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961952"
---
<p><span style="font-size: 10.5pt; font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">I have mentioned in prior entries that many years ago, I started on the front lines in a call center (that's what they were called back then - online support was just starting to gain traction) and eventually moved into management. Our work was providing technical support for three families of very popular business-oriented software products, and we took calls ranging in topic from what we termed "how do I" to diagnosing bugs and other technical issues. These products were household names (to business people, at least) and our call volumes were always the highest when compared to other product lines at the company.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 10.5pt; font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">Despite the popularity of these products and the premium price associated with them, that call volume was still considered a smite on our record. When compared to the other low-cost products at the company that received lower call volumes (our metric for measuring support burden was "calls per box"), we were constantly striving to reduce our ratio. With those volumes of calls, we had plenty of data to examine and what would seem archaic tools and methodologies compared to today to share insights with the development team trying to squash bugs and improve product usability.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 10.5pt; font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">With an eye on that past, I want to focus on what's possible today. Rather than simply reporting facts, now we can use analytics for greater insights. Offhand, I can think of three ways this greater reliance on analytics helps improve service and product quality.</span></p><p></p><p><strong style="color: #e23d39; font-size: 18.0pt; font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">Channel Trends</strong></p><p><span style="font-size: 10.5pt; font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">In my days in the call center, we really only monitored telephone lines and their respective call volumes. From experiences and the data, we knew that about two-thirds of our customers (based upon area code information) were calling us from east of the Mississippi River. For our west coast-based call center, that meant we needed the bulk of our staff starting early to address those first-thing-in-the-morning east coast callers. We also knew from experience that if we needed to close the phones for a meeting, we could expect a combination of higher volume of online support requests as well as higher call volume the next day - customers' problems didn't just go away and they would choose an alternate channel for support. And this was about as sophisticated as we were with the available data.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 10.5pt; font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">Today's service centers have customers contacting them via email, chat, and social channels on top of telephone. While analyzing the use of multiple channels becomes more challenging, today's analytics take much of the work out the process and each of those channels provides unique information and valuable new insights are possible. For example, visitors to online customer service portals can be tracked: where did they go, what did they search for, what did they click on? How much time was spent in each area and where did they linger? Did they "like" or comment on any content, giving an idea of sentiment? Each of these service channels provides a different opportunity to analyze not only where your customers are interested in getting their support, but also the relative merit of that content.</span></p><p></p><h1><strong style="color: #e23d39; font-size: 18.0pt; font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">Issue Trends</strong></h1><p><span style="font-size: 10.5pt; font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">I mentioned when I was operating a call center supporting software, we took a mix of "how do I" calls to troubleshooting and working around bugs. Supporting software in early Windows and Mac environments, it wasn't uncommon for my team to spend a lot of time in diagnosis mode - once the customer explained the problem, was it something new? If it was a software issue, could it reliably be reproduced? (We also tracked the "how do I" questions to determine how improvements could be made to printed documentation and help files, or if a supplementary knowledgebase article was needed.) We used issue codes assigned to cases to crudely attempt to group similar cases together, but this system had many flaws, not the least of which was improper categorization by the support agent.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 10.5pt; font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">Superior techniques exist today. While rudimentary categorization is still useful, analytics can use like-terms to group similar cases to show volume or clusters of issues in product areas. In addition, analytics can more quickly identify patterns in data that someone auditing a simple list might miss. As machine learning gets more and more incorporated into analytics, that pattern recognition will further improve as analytics benefit from human knowledge and insight.</span></p><p></p><h1><strong style="color: #e23d39; font-size: 18.0pt; font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">Forecasting and Predicting</strong></h1><p><span style="font-size: 10.5pt; font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">What we really lacked during my days in the call center was the ability to look ahead and plan. We might make some educated guesses by reviewing prior data, but they were exactly that - guesses - that might take a few of the many parameters into account to create a forecast. We stretched our spreadsheet skills to the limit, but our window to the future was narrow at best.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 10.5pt; font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">With analytics today, prior events such as holidays or new product releases can model predicted service volumes for similar events based on historical data. Those predictions could help establish preliminary staffing levels. Likewise, with a new product or service release, predictions can be made as to where issues are most likely to occur, prompting additional scrutiny and review of those areas prior to release or improved staff training to better understand and troubleshoot historically problematic areas.</span></p><p></p><h1><strong style="color: #e23d39; font-size: 18.0pt; font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">Greater Service Through Analysis</strong></h1><p><span style="font-size: 10.5pt; font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">The analytics of today are far greater in capabilities of the simple spreadsheet-based analysis of the past. It's now possible to analyze higher volumes of complex data and to do it in real-time. The discovery of patterns not immediately visible to the human eye is easily discerned by algorithms. Volumes of past service data across channels can be easily considered to model future delivery plans. I won't say customer service is easier today than it was in my day, but the ability to utilize information to stay ahead of customer needs has definitely simplified.</span></p>