---
title: "Knowledge ChickfilA talking CMDB"
date: 2017-04-06T17:45:02.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=755da629dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961901"
---
<p style="background: white;"><span style="color: #303030;"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-family: Arial, sans-serif;">K17 speaker:</span><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-family: Arial, sans-serif;"><strong> </strong></span><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-family: Arial, sans-serif;">Catherine Carrell Roberts, Service Asset &amp; Configuration Manager</span></span></p><p style="background: white;"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-family: Arial, sans-serif; color: #303030;">2<sup>nd</sup> year at Knowledge, first time speaker</span></p><p style="background: white;"></p><p style="background: white;"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-family: Arial, sans-serif; color: #303030;">What is cool? Cool is having the data needed to provide insights to your business. Cool is using those insights to make actionable decisions based on this data. Data that affects Chick-fil-A is in all different types of places: Restaurants, applications, Twitter, 3rd party portals and tools…this list continues on. In order to better serve our Customers through our Restaurant Operators, the Chick-fil-A IT Service Management team has taken its first steps on the road to cool to provide actionable data through the implementation of a CMDB.</span></p><p style="background: white;"></p><p style="background: white;"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-family: Arial, sans-serif; color: #303030;">At Knowledge this year, I'll be speaking to the process we used to build out our CMDB along with the technical services we leveraged within ServiceNow to complete our solution.   A CMDB is foundational to all Enterprise Service Management processes, so I want to make sure you are aware of this session. In my session, I'll share with you how Chick-fil-A reached its current level of success and what is coming down the pipeline later this year and beyond.</span></p><p style="background: white;"></p><p style="background: white;"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-family: Arial, sans-serif; color: #303030;">Getting started with a good list of configuration items can only take you so far.   Maintaining the CMDB is an ongoing effort that can be very successful with the right culture and businesses processes. Understand what business problem you are trying solve with your CMDB.   Define why are you putting resources behind this monumental effort. Understand who is going to use this information. Get their buy in!   This process takes time and resources. I will be sharing the story of what got us here to this very measureable success.   </span></p><p style="background: white;"></p><p style="background: white;"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-family: Arial, sans-serif; color: #303030;">ServiceNow has allowed us to transform the way we deliver services to employees through automation and process implementation. All the tools I needed to implement our CMDB and a Business Service Map were in place. The process of gathering our Service and System information drove the implementation timeline.</span></p><p style="background: white;"></p><p style="background: white;"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-family: Arial, sans-serif; color: #303030;">We upgraded to Istanbul last month! I'm excited to see some of the new dashboarding features around CI's, and to see the new functionality within the CMDB Health Dashboard.</span></p><p style="background: white;"></p><p style="background: white;"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-family: Arial, sans-serif; color: #303030;">Chick-fil-A is taking steps to enable decision-making based on predictive insights, and its CMDB is at the heart of this transition. Chick-fil-A is "thinking cool" with its CMDB and the actions and insights that its data enables.</span></p><p style="background: white;"></p><p style="background: white;"><span style="color: #303030; text-decoration: underline; font-size: 11pt; font-family: Arial, sans-serif;">A word on Knowledge 17</span></p><p style="background: white;"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-family: Arial, sans-serif; color: #303030;">This will be my second year attending Knowledge and my first time presenting. I like the integration of new features and functionalities at the ServiceNow labs we get access to at the event.   Knowledge allows great face time and hands-on help with problems you may be trying to solve.   I highly recommend Knowledge to anyone in the Service Management space. You learn a lot from your peers and also get a glimpse into the innovation happening at ServiceNow.</span></p>