---
title: "Monday Musings on Customer Service April  "
date: 2017-04-17T21:25:43.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=05fca2a5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961962"
---
<p>Today is "Tax Day Eve" in the United States. For those outside the U.S., Tax Day is the day by which federal income taxes (and states with income taxes) must be filed or at least postmarked by midnight. As the traditional date for Tax Day (April 15th) falls on the weekend, the date this year is April 18th. In light of this "holiday," it seemed appropriate to take some time to review the website of the <a title="ww.irs.gov/" href="https://www.irs.gov/">Internal Revenue Service</a> , the tax collection agency - let's call it an audit (see what I did there?) of their customer service capabilities. How did they rate? Let's check it out.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Overall Organization</span></h1><p>I'll start with a disclaimer: I am not a website designer nor do I claim to have skills in this area; however, this is an area for me where I can say I feel like I know what works well and what does not. To me, the IRS website is a bit of a mess but it gets the job done.</p><p></p><p>Let's begin with the navigation. To put it lightly, it's challenging. There are tabs at the top organized by topical areas. Below that, there are large graphical buttons I would describe as the "Top Question" areas (more on this in a moment). Continuing below that, there are content areas ("Forms and Pubs," Hot Topics," "Tools," etc.), where actual links to new pages are exposed. Visually, there is a lot of information on the page to take in. Perhaps aesthetically not pleasing, still, it offers a variety of navigation and organization methods to make a lot of information available to people arriving at their home page.</p><p></p><p>What I referred to as the Top Questions above constitute the most common reasons people probably visit: "File Your Tax Return," "Get Your Refund Status," and "Pay Your Tax Bill." Those are all topics to feature prominently as I would imagine the majority of taxpayers are seeking information in those categories, and those highly visible links would set them on the right course.</p><p></p><p>The inclusion of a "Hot Topics" content area is also a smart move. By aggregating the most common topics people are interested in, this also helps to override the challenging navigation. They must also do periodic curation of the website, as several pages under the main pages offered a "file an extension" option if people are getting started late on their tax returns.</p><p></p><p>In the end, you can get to the information you need but the inclusion of so many methods of information organization and navigation might overwhelm some.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Knowledge Articles</span></h1><p>If I seemed a little harsh about the navigation, I'm going to lavish some praise on the abundance of knowledge articles available. From personal experience, I have had many questions answered within those pages. If there's any question about the accuracy and up-to-date nature of the articles, last reviewed dates are indicated at the end of every article.</p><p></p><p>Bonus points to the IRS for providing the ability to give feedback on articles. Was something not clear? Let them know. They have also included some lightweight social media features, with the ability to like and share articles. If you prefer to read the article offline, a print capability is available that formats the article for your printer (removing extraneous information on the page not related to the article). Where relevant, articles also link to self-service tools, our last category in this review.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Additional Self-Service Options</span></h1><p>Many self-service tools are available. I have used the "Check Refund Status" on the IRS website before - provide some personal information and tax information known only to me, and determine the standing of your tax refund. I had never really considered it as a form of self-service, but it is and I'm sure it's used by millions of customers multiple times once they have filed. As I looked around, several other self-service options are available, including an interactive "Do I need to file" questionnaire and the option to pay your tax bill. All of these tools make anytime-anywhere access available to taxpayers and reduce the need for IRS personnel to respond to emails and answer telephone calls. The availability of these and other self-service options also means the IRS has built automation and workflow into their processes, taking customer input and delivering it to the appropriate internal department for processing and response as needed.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Serving Millions</span></h1><p>According to IRS records, more than 150 million taxpayers filed returns in 2016, an increase of over 13 million from 2015. Complexities and periodic changes to the tax code cause U.S. citizens who choose to file their taxes without an accountant, professional advice, or software to have many questions and concerns - and even to have questions after-the-fact, such as refund status. As a result, most citizens are likely spending some amount of time on the IRS website seeking answers during the tax preparation and filing season.</p><p></p><p>As a government entity with limited resources and millions of potential questions coming in every year, the IRS is doing its best to help address those questions and concerns. They have invested a lot of time into a powerful knowledgebase and automation to perform common tasks. While I found their organization and navigation challenging, they have all the right tools in place to maximize the service they provide to the millions of taxpayers in need of assistance. Happy Tax Day!</p>