---
title: "Strengthening the PagerDuty  ServiceNow Partnership at Knowledge"
date: 2017-04-21T05:21:09.000Z
authors: ["colbyglieden"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=75dca665dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961996"
---
<p> <span class="s1">At PagerDuty, ServiceNow is one of our most valued, strategic partnerships for its powerful innovations in helping customers work at lightspeed. As <a title="tore.servicenow.com/sn_appstore_store.do#!/store/home?orderby=popularity" href="https://store.servicenow.com/sn_appstore_store.do#!/store/home?orderby=popularity">one of the most popular apps</a> in the ServiceNow ecosystem, we help hundreds of great ServiceNow customers and thousands of the best operations teams deliver better software and customer experiences by empowering them to automate the best practice, end-to-end incident resolution lifecycle.</span></p><p><span class="s1"></span></p><p class="p2"><span class="s1"></span></p><p class="p1"><span class="s1">Knowledge17 is a very important conference for us, and we've had a presence at this event for the last several years. Here are some of the reasons why we're excited about Knowledge17:</span></p><p class="p2"><span class="s1"></span></p><ul><li><strong><span class="s1">Sharing our story with ServiceNow</span></strong><ul><li><span class="s1"></span><span class="s1">With every ServiceNow release from Geneva to Helsinki to Istanbul and prior, we at PagerDuty are consistently hard at work updating our certified, bi-directional integration to keep it as robust and flexible as possible for ServiceNow environments. The updated ServiceNow integration now includes new capabilities including automatic incident prioritization and selective sync of incidents from PagerDuty to ServiceNow.</span></li></ul></li></ul><p class="p2"><span class="s1"></span></p><ul><li><strong><span class="s1">Evangelizing at several sessions</span></strong><ul><li><span class="s1">I will be sharing how the PagerDuty-ServiceNow integration has powered better incident resolution for many teams. One of the talks is with Stephen Sturdevant, Digital Platform Change Manager at Electronic Arts, and a valued PagerDuty-ServiceNow customer. He will be sharing how the integration has enabled his team to deliver a 99.5% gamer availability SLA and lead in one of the most competitive, high traffic industries in the world. See the information on the sessions here:</span></li></ul></li></ul><p class="p2"><span class="s1"></span></p><ul><ul><ul><li><span class="s1"><strong>Partner Theater Session</strong>: </span><em><span class="s1">Incident Response Best Practices for the Modern Enterprise </span></em><span class="s1">on Tuesday, May 10th at 12:30 PM</span></li><li><span class="s1"><strong>Customer Session</strong>: </span><em><span class="s1">EA: Revolutionizing the Gaming Experience by Streamlining Incident Management </span></em><span class="s1">on </span><span class="s1">Tuesday, May 9th at </span><span class="s1">2:40 PM (</span><span class="s1"><a title="nowledge.servicenowevents.com/connect/sessionDetail.ww?SESSION_ID=132033" href="https://knowledge.servicenowevents.com/connect/sessionDetail.ww?SESSION_ID=132033">Register Now</a>)</span></li></ul></ul><li><span class="s1"></span><strong><span class="s1">Understanding how ServiceNow has changed lives</span></strong><ul><li><span class="s1">We always love coming to Knowledge to hear customers talk about how ServiceNow has transformed their day-to-day work. ServiceNow has helped so many customers become much more mature operationally by transitioning them away from legacy ITSM. The hundreds of integrations enable customers to make more of their existing IT investments and establish far more efficient processes around IT service delivery.</span></li></ul></li><li><span class="s1"></span><strong><span class="s1">Helping customers adopt the best practice incident lifecycle</span></strong><ul><li><span class="s1"></span><span class="s1">As a leader in the industry, we have shared a lot of knowledge around best practice incident response -- including open-sourcing our own <a title="esponse.pagerduty.com/" href="https://response.pagerduty.com/">incident response documentation</a>. Our product also helps automate the entire incident lifecycle for you--from assessing an issue with event intelligence, to getting notified with on-call scheduling and escalations, to resolving it with real-time collaboration, to learning from it with post-mortems, analytics, and more. Whether or not you're a PagerDuty customer, the best practices we openly share can help your entire organization collectively get better at responding to and preventing customer-impacting issues.</span></li></ul></li></ul><p class="p2"><span class="s1"></span></p><p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span></p><p class="p1"><span class="s1">We're very enthusiastic as Knowledge17 draws closer. Be sure to check out the <a title="tore.servicenow.com/sn_appstore_store.do#!/store/application/39a9d9664f834e00dd657bb28110c77b" href="https://store.servicenow.com/sn_appstore_store.do#!/store/application/39a9d9664f834e00dd657bb28110c77b">PagerDuty app</a> on the ServiceNow store, try the <a title="ww.pagerduty.com/pagerduty-and-servicenow" href="https://www.pagerduty.com/pagerduty-and-servicenow">free trial</a>, and visit us at <strong>booth #143 in West Hall D</strong>. </span></p><p class="p2"><span class="s1"></span></p><p class="p1"><span class="s1">Looking forward to seeing you all at Knowledge17!</span></p><p class="p1"><span class="s1">____________________________________________________________________________</span></p><p class="p2"><span class="s1"></span></p><p class="p1"><span class="s1">David Hayes is Director, Platform Strategy at PagerDuty, where he supports key global partnerships including ServiceNow. He also trains IT Operations and DevOps teams in implementing best practices around incident response and resolution. </span></p><p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span></p><p class="p2"><span class="s1"></span></p><p class="p1"><span class="s1">You can find Dave on <a title="witter.com/eurica?lang=en" href="https://twitter.com/eurica?lang=en">Twitter</a> and <a title="ww.linkedin.com/in/daveeurica/" href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/daveeurica/">LinkedIn</a>.</span></p>