---
title: "Monday Musings on Customer Service April  "
date: 2017-04-24T20:27:55.000Z
authors: ["paulselby"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=e73d6ee5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961970"
---
<p>This past week I found myself standing in a line with many others to redeem my annual rebate check at the local outlet of one of America's largest membership-only warehouse clubs. You know the place. Anyway, the line was long and I got to looking around. I'm always looking for inspiring topics to write about, and the line was not moving fast so I had a lot of time to ponder. Glancing around the customer service area, I found inspiration in the most bizarre place: a bulletin board.</p><p></p><p>This wasn't just any bulletin board. It was the board where this store posts product recall notices. Posted there were a variety of merchandise items, including car seats, tires, and electronics. It got me thinking about how each of those recalls and the fact that they were there hanging on this bulletin board were a great representation of how we describe the best customer service: effortless, connected, and proactive. Allow me to walk you through my thinking.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;"><em>Proactive</em> Actions</span></h1><p>I'm going to start with proactive because a recall usually starts with the discovery of a defect, through reporting by customers, testing or reviews by a consumer protection agency, or in the manufacturer's own findings. Recalls might range in nature and severity from affecting product quality and usage to at worse creating potential danger for the customer (and in those circumstances, a government agency might be requiring the company to perform a recall). Regardless of the cause, a recall by its very nature is a proactive attempt to prevent other customers from being affected: an effort is made to preempt the customer experiencing an issue.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;"><em>Effortless</em> Service</span></h1><p>A recall is never a great situation for any of the parties involved: it's inconvenient for customers to deal with; it's a hit to the reputation for the company (as well as takes a toll on profits); and in this case, the store or channel selling the service is also caught up in the process.</p><p></p><p>With this particular retailer, they effectively supplement the recall process. They make every effort to work with manufacturers to remedy the situation quickly and to streamline the solution. While posting a notice on a bulletin board seems like a pretty low effort, I'm thinking more of the times this retailer has tracked my prior purchases as a member and has sent me postcards when a product I purchased at their store is the subject of a recall. Perhaps this was a product I also had the opportunity to register with the manufacturer with a return-by-mail registration or online (I always register my products when offered), in which case I would also be notified by the company, but I don't mind that added layer of protection of the store additionally providing notice. I appreciate as a customer of both the manufacturer and the retailer they are watching out for me and my family and making it as effortless as possible to remedy the situation.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;"><em>Connected</em> Solutions</span></h1><p>In the case of the types of recalls I'm describing here, connections driving the solution occur in two ways. First, as I noted above the telemetry that drives many recalls originates in the service center. Customers with issues will call in, and as the calls, emails, and other contacts roll in, the pattern becomes evident there is a problem. Customer service then works with other departments to determine the root cause as well as to determine the ultimate solution. If a workaround isn't possible and quality or safety is a risk, a recall becomes a more likely option.</p><p></p><p>The second connection comes from the retailer. By adding an extra layer of service to both the customer (through additional recall notifications) and the manufacturer (through notifying customers that might not have registered their product), they are displaying a connection back to the processes at the company whose wares they are selling. They are made aware of the recall, get the details that need to be conveyed to their mutual customers, then provide notices by mail and in-store.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Making The Best</span></h1><p>A recall is a difficult scenario for customers and companies alike. Poorly executed recalls are not something companies want to occur as they shed poor light not only on their products and services but their failure to resolve the situation effectively. Companies delivering service that is effortless, connected, and proactive, though, can apply those same principles to address a recall situation quickly and maintain customer confidence and loyalty.</p>