---
title: "Monday Musings on Customer Service May  "
date: 2017-05-01T21:21:06.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=dbcce265dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961904"
---
<p>On the weekend, I enjoy taking things at a slower pace. It's time to rest, recharge, and maybe to do things a little differently, like the morning routine: no rushing around. Playing a big role is slowing the pace down is my local newspaper. While I consume much of my news online during the week, opening my front door on Sunday morning to retrieve the newspaper is the kick-off of my laid back weekend ritual. I enjoy sitting at the kitchen table (or on the porch or patio on warmer days) with a cup of coffee, catching up on events near and afar. Let me say again this has become a bit of a ritual over the years, so disrupting it would be like casting a cloud over the day and perhaps the week ahead ... which is exactly what happened this weekend. Because on Sunday morning, my newspaper was AWOL.</p><p></p><p>This sets the stage for this week's blog, what I like to call "A Failed Opportunity in Proactive Service." Let's walk through what happened and see where, from a service perspective, things were or weren't effortless, connected, and proactive for me, the customer.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">An Effortless Enough Beginning</span></h1><p>During the work week, I get up pretty early - at or before 5 AM, generally. I'm laid back on the weekend (I've mentioned that, right?), so on Saturdays and Sundays I might actually sleep in until 6 AM. However, with only a few exceptions, over the last few years the newspaper has always been sitting outside the front door by 5 AM during the week and, of course, it would have already been there for a while by 6 AM on a Sunday. I recognize that problems happen and disruptions occur in any service, so I waited until about 7 AM before going online to find my local newspaper's customer service telephone number. The number was easy enough to locate and I dialed in to find my newspaper. So far so good.</p><p></p><p>I was met with a brief hold time, as well as periodic messages to consider using the website for answers. (Nice work, there, to redirect!) One of the messages also conveyed I could relay delivery issues, and as I considered changing service channels from telephone to online, my call was answered.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Customer Service (Dis)Connected to Delivery</span></h1><p>My customer service agent was courteous and professional and we got quickly to the point: missed delivery. When I told her my address, she indicated that yes, there was an issue with my delivery area. (We'll come back to this in a moment.) A substitute deliverer was on the route and that my paper should arrive no later than 7:30 AM per the last communication or report by the substitute. (It was about 7:10 AM now.) However, she said, should I not have the newspaper in hand by 7:45 AM to call back. So while there was some connection between customer service and what was occurring "in the field," it was infrequent and by no means a complete, connected circuit.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Missed Opportunities for Proactive Service</span></h1><p>As I waited for my paper to arrive, I asked myself: was there a chance for them to preemptively notify me? Absolutely there was. Let's examine the facts: they knew there was an issue with the regular delivery person in my area. They also have contact information for me - both email and a home and cell phone number. What could they have done?</p><p></p><p>First, they could have notified me as soon as they realized there would be an issue with the regular delivery time. Even lacking the automated technology to call, email, or text all affected customers, they might have taken one of their customer service agents off the telephone queue to manually perform these activities rather than wait for those same customers to call or email into the service center.</p><p></p><p>Second, at the point at which you aren't completely certain when my newspaper will be delivered, take it upon yourself to notify me. I recognize this would involve a tighter connection to the delivery person and activities taking place in the field, but even if once all affected customers had their newspapers delivered and the delivery person notified customer service to pull the trigger on a mass notification, that would demonstrate the concern in remediating the situation and an opportunity to apologize for the miss.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Correcting the Failures</span></h1><p>This is not meant to be a commentary on the challenges or failures of small, local news organizations. I will continue to support my local newspaper! Rather, I saw this as a great opportunity to point out some missed opportunities to provide greater transparency and information around their most important activity: delivering newspapers into the hands of waiting customers and providing notice when that part of the service is experiencing interruptions. For any business, service disruptions are going to occur. If you can take some proactive steps to keep customers better informed, do it! It will be what separates you from the others and not only makes customers stick with you but to share your amazing service story and profess their loyalty to others.</p>