---
title: "Know to Win Social Media Contests at Knowledge"
date: 2017-05-03T20:49:15.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=efada6a9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961935"
---
<p><span style="font-size: 11pt; color: #303030;"> </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 11pt; color: #303030;">This year, we have something for everyone. Participate in one of our social media contests and you could leave the Sunshine State with a <strong>Swag Bag</strong>, <strong>mini 3-D printer</strong>, <strong>Apple Watch</strong>, <strong>Google Home</strong>, <strong>Snap Spectacles</strong> or <strong>Fitbit Alta</strong>! Ready to get started? Here's everything you need to know.</span></p><p></p><p></p><p><span style="color: #303030;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">1.         </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">We'll be posting photos throughout the week and want to see you flex your writing chops! Submit your cleverest captions to the <strong>#Know17Caption</strong> contest and you could win a Swag Bag.</span></span></p><p></p><p><span style="color: #303030;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">2.         </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">"I'll take Knowledge17 for 300, Alex." Be on the lookout for <strong>#Know17Trivia</strong>, the first person to answer a question correctly wins a Swag Bag.</span></span></p><p></p><p><span style="color: #303030;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">3.         </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Participate in the <strong>#Know17Games</strong> Selfie Scavenger Hunt. Up to 3 attendees who tweet selfies with the most items on our Scavenger Hunt list will win either a mini 3-D printer, Apple Watch or Google Home! (See below for full Scavenger Hunt list)</span></span></p><p></p><p><span style="color: #303030;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">4.         </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">We want to see all the new friends you've made this year, so tweet your best networking photo using <strong>#KnowToConnect</strong>. The photo with the most likes will win a pair of Snap Spectacles.</span></span></p><p></p><p><span style="color: #303030;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">5.         </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Are you getting your steps in each day and then some? Share a screenshot of your step counting app with us on Twitter using <strong>#Know17Steps</strong>. The person with the highest step count in a single day will win a FitBit Alta.</span></span></p><p></p><p><span style="color: #303030;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">6.         </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Whenever the mood strikes, share why you keep coming back to the Knowledge conferences, or why you will be returning next year using <strong>#WhyIKnow</strong>. The most thoughtful responses will win Swag Bags.</span></span></p><p></p><p><span style="color: #303030;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">7.         </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Throughout the conference, share with us your most innovative use of ServiceNow using <strong>#HowIKnow</strong>. We'll be choosing a handful of our favorites to take home a Swag Bag.</span></span></p><p></p><p><span style="color: #303030;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">8.         </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Before you leave Knowledge, we want to hear your favorite memory from this year's event. Whether it's a picture, video, anecdote, or quote, share it with us using <strong>#ThanksKnow17</strong>. You just might leave Orlando with a sweet Swag Bag.</span></span></p><p style="margin-bottom: .0001pt;"></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 11pt; color: #303030;"><strong>#Know17Games Selfie Scavenger Hunt</strong></span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 11pt; color: #303030;">Post selfies to Twitter with as many items on this list as you possibly can using the hashtag #Know17Games for a chance to win! Must be completed by 10:30am EST on Thursday, May 11. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 11pt; color: #303030;"><strong>May the odds be ever in your favor.</strong></span></p><p></p><ul><li><span style="font-size: 11pt; color: #303030;">During one of the General Session Keynotes.</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 11pt; color: #303030;">With the Lego train in the Developer HackZone.</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 11pt; color: #303030;">During the Go Live kick-off party.</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 11pt; color: #303030;">With a NOW Guy.</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 11pt; color: #303030;">From our Diamond Sponsors' (KPMG or Accenture) booths in ExpoNow.</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 11pt; color: #303030;">From your favorite demo pod at the ServiceNow pavillion in ExpoNow.</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 11pt; color: #303030;">Holding swag or a giveaway from one of our awesome sponsor booths.</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 11pt; color: #303030;">From TheaterNow.</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 11pt; color: #303030;">From within a breakout session or lab.</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 11pt; color: #303030;">With an ImageThink illustration at the Social Media Lounge.</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 11pt; color: #303030;">With a ServiceNow Champion — look for the button!</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 11pt; color: #303030;">At theCUBE.</span></li></ul><p></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 11pt; color: #303030;">Don't be a stranger! If you have any questions, or just want to say hi, swing by the Social Media Command Center at Knowledge17.</span></p><p></p><ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li><span style="font-size: 11pt; color: #303030;">Contests run from 7:00am EST on Tuesday, May 9 to 10:30am EST on Thursday, May 11.</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 11pt; color: #303030;">Winners must be attending Knowledge17.</span></li><li><span style="font-size: 11pt; color: #303030;">Winners must pick up their prizes at the Social Media Lounge area by 1:00pm EST on Thursday, May 11. We cannot ship your prize to you after the show.</span></li></ul><p></p><p></p><p></p><p></p><p align="center" style="text-align: center;"></p><p align="center" style="text-align: center;"></p><p align="center" style="text-align: center;"></p><p align="center" style="text-align: center;"></p><p align="center" style="text-align: center;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">KNOWLEDGE17 SOCIAL CONTESTS</span></p><p></p><p align="center" style="text-align: center;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">OFFICIAL RULES   </span></p><p align="center" style="text-align: center;"></p><p align="center" style="text-align: center;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><strong>VOID WHERE PROHIBITED BY LAW.</strong></span></p><p></p><ol style="list-style-type: decimal;"><li><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><strong>Eligibility</strong>: Open to legal residents of the United States including the District of Columbia who are eighteen (18) years of age or older or are the age of the majority in their respective states/jurisdictions as of date of entry, have Internet access, and are physically attending the ServiceNow Knowledge17 conference taking place at the Orange County Convention Center in Orlando, FL, May 7-11, 2017. Employees and their immediate family members (parents, siblings, children and spouse, and persons residing in the same household whether related or not) of ServiceNow ("Sponsor") and its parent and affiliated members, companies, subsidiaries, and advertising and promotion agencies, and all other companies associated with the Know17 Social Contest (the "Contest"), and their respective agents, officers, and directors, and all individuals, including, but not limited to, consultants, independent contractors, so-called "temporary employees," former employees and interns (and their immediate family members) who have, within the past six months, performed services for Sponsor, are not eligible to enter or win. Void where prohibited by law.</span></li></ol><p style="text-indent: .5in;"></p><ol style="list-style-type: decimal;"><li><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><strong>Contest Period</strong>: The Contest begins <span style="color: black;">on May 9, 2017 </span>at 7:00 a.m. EDT and ends on May 11, 2017 at 10:30 a.m. EDT, (the "Contest Period"). Sponsor or Sponsor's designee shall be the sole determiner of all Contest-related time periods.</span></li></ol><p></p><ol style="list-style-type: decimal;"><li><span style="font-size: 8pt;">3.<strong>   How to</strong> <strong>Enter</strong>: <span __jive_emoticon_name="info" __jive_macro_name="emoticon" class="jive_emote jive_macro" data-renderedposition="1683.53125_125.21875_16_16" src="/8.0.4.21bdc7e/images/emoticons/info.png"></span> The Contest is divided into rounds (each, a "Round"). During the Contest Period, entrants ("Entrants") must do the following during the applicable Round: Using the Entrant's Twitter account, the Entrant must Tweet a Submission (as defined below) on the Entrant's public profile. No private or otherwise protected Tweets are allowed.</span></li></ol><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><strong>ROUND 1: #Know17Games Scavenger Hunt</strong></span></p><p></p><ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">During the Contest Period, using the Scavenger Hunt item list provided by the Sponsor, each Entrant must find the items and then post a photo selfie Submission for each item to Twitter showing the designated item. <strong>Every post must include the hashtag #Know17Games</strong>. The Scavenger Hunt item list is published as part of Contest announcement on the ServiceNow blog located at </span><a _jive_internal="true" href="/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=efada6a9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961935"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">https://community.servicenow.com/community/blogs/blog/2017/05/01/know-to-win-social-media-contests-at-knowledge17</span></a><span style="font-family: Calibri;">. Each item must be located solely by each individual Entrant. No groups or other assistance may be utilized to locate scavenger hunt items. Such activity shall render the entry null and void and ineligible to win a prize.</span></span></li></ul><p></p><p></p><p></p><ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">When an Entrant locates another item on the Scavenger Hunt item list, the Entrant must Tweet the selfie Submission as described above. <strong>However, the Entrant's final item selfie must be posted no later than 10:30 a.m. EDT on Thursday, May 11, 2017.</strong></span></li></ul><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The top three Entrants with the most items collected shall each win a prize as described below. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><strong>ROUND 2: #KnowtoConnect</strong></span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">During the Contest Period, Entrants must tag themselves in a group picture with as many attendee networking connections as they can fit into the photograph and Tweet the photo. Each Tweet must include the hashtag #KnowtoConnectContest. At the end of the Contest Period, the one (1) photo that receives the most likes on Twitter shall win the prize for this Round. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The photo must be an actual photograph taken at the conference with no alteration or manipulation as to the number of individuals seen in the photograph. Any such alteration, as solely determined by the Sponsor, shall render the entry null and void and ineligible to win a prize. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Only one (1) winner will receive a prize as described below.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><strong>ROUND 3: #Know17Steps</strong></span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">During the Contest Period, Entrants must Tweet a screenshot of their step counting app showing how many steps they took in a single day. Each Tweet must include the hashtag #Know17Steps. At the end of the Contest Period, the one (1) screenshot showing the highest step count in a single day shall win the prize for this Round.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Only one (1) winner will receive a prize as described below.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><strong>ROUND 4: #Know17Trivia</strong></span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">During the Contest Period, Entrants for this Round must attend the designated daily keynote speaker sessions as solely determined by Sponsor. At the conclusion of each keynote session, Sponsor shall post session questions on Twitter, using @Know365. Using the hashtag #Know17TriviaContest, the first Entrant to answer each question correctly shall be deemed the winner of that session. A winner of one keynote #Know17Trivia session is ineligible to win another keynote session. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Three (3) winners for each keynote session will receive a prize as described below.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><strong>ROUND 5: #WhyIKnow and #HowIKnow </strong></span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">#WhyIKnow: During the Contest Period, Entrants may Tweet the reason they attend or would like to attend the conference every year. The twelve (12) best responses submitted by Entrants, as solely determined by the Sponsor in accordance with the criteria below, will be awarded a prize. Each tweet must include the hashtag #WhyIKnowContest.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">#HowIKnow: During the Contest Period, Entrants may share their most innovative use of ServiceNow. The Entrant with the best response, as solely determined by the Sponsor in accordance with the criteria below, will be awarded a prize. Each tweet must include the hashtag #HowIKnowContest.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Twelve (12) winners will receive a prize as described below.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><strong>ROUND 6: #ThanksKnow17</strong></span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">During the Contest Period, Entrants may Tweet a photo or video Submission of their favorite memory from the 2017 conference. The six (6) best responses submitted by Entrants, as solely determined by the Sponsor in accordance with the criteria below, will be awarded a prize. Each tweet must include the hashtag #ThanksKnow17Contest. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Six (6) winners will receive a prize as described below.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Entrant's Twitter account must be in good standing in compliance with the Twitter's terms of service during the Contest Period and the prize award process. In addition, any Tweet/Submission deleted by an Entrant shall render it null and void. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Late and/or incomplete entries are null and void. Sponsor, its employees, agents, and representatives are not responsible for late, lost, damaged, misdirected, or misappropriated entries, or improperly formatted media files/uploads. Incomplete entries are void. Sponsor, its employees, agents, and representatives reserve the right to not review or otherwise screen or approve a Submission for any reason it deems valid in its sole discretion.   </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><strong>By entering, all Entrants hereby agree to abide by these Official Rules.</strong></span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 4.   <strong>Submission Requirements</strong>:   </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is understood that Sponsor may use the Submissions in its advertising, marketing, and promotional endeavors. However, Sponsor is under no obligation to distribute, post online, or otherwise make post-Contest use of any Submission it receives.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Submissions must conform to the following requirements:</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><span __jive_emoticon_name="info" __jive_macro_name="emoticon" class="jive_emote jive_macro" data-renderedposition="2949.515625_8_16_16" src="/8.0.4.21bdc7e/images/emoticons/info.png"></span> Any Submission that Sponsor, at its sole discretion, deems to be inappropriate (including, but not limited to: Submissions containing content that infringes any third party's intellectual rights or right of publicity, as further referenced below, or content that Sponsor deems to be offensive, defamatory, indecent, disparaging, obscene, pornographic, abusive, harassing, or illegal, or that constitutes an unlawful invasion of privacy, or which in any manner violates these Official Rules) shall be null and void and ineligible to win;</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(ii) Each Entrant shall retain its ownership interest and applicable intellectual property rights in and to its Submission. However, each Entrant hereby grants Sponsor, and its agents, affiliates, successors and assigns a perpetual, irrevocable, worldwide, non-exclusive, fully-paid and royalty-free, sub-licensable and transferable license to use, and distribute, all Submissions in any manner and for any purposes in connection to the Contest and in the Sponsor's advertising and marketing endeavors as further explained below. Each Submission is, and will be treated as, non-confidential and non-proprietary.   Sponsor retains the right to edit all Submissions in any manner and for any purpose, but is under no obligation to do so. Each Entrant hereby represents and warrants that it owns the Submission (and the content therein) submitted by it, or that it otherwise has the right to grant use thereof as set forth in this section, and that the posting, distribution, or use of said Submission does not violate the privacy rights, publicity rights, copyright, trademark rights, contract rights, or any other rights of any person or entity. Sponsor reserves the right to use the Submission for any purpose, including, but not limited to, posting, direct messaging via social media or other platforms, reproduction, disclosure, advertising and promotional activities, distribution, transmission, publication, and broadcast. Sponsor reserves the right to use any ideas, concepts, knowledge, or techniques contained in the Submission for any purpose, including, but not limited to, developing and marketing products, recipes, and/or services using such information, and each Entrant acknowledges and understands there shall be no consideration, royalties or other compensation from Sponsor, its agents, affiliates or assigns for use of said Submission or the content therein.   Further, each Entrant hereby indemnifies, discharges, releases, and holds the Contest Entities (as defined below), harmless from any action and/or liability, in any form or manner, arising from any infringement of any third party's rights, inclusive of attorneys' fees and costs in connection to the Submission. <strong>If an Entrant does not agree to these terms, he/she should not enter the Contest. </strong></span></p><p></p><ol style="list-style-type: decimal;"><li><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><strong>How to Win</strong>:</span></li></ol><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">For each Round (excluding Rounds 2, 3, and 4), the Submissions shall be judged by Sponsor and/or its designated representatives or agents. Judging criteria is as follows:</span></p><p></p><ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">40% - COMPELLING MESSAGE</span></li><li><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">40% - CREATIVITY AND ORIGINALITY IN STYLE</span></li><li><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">20% - RELEVANCE TO THE APPLICABLE ROUND. </span></li></ul><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Submissions that violate Section 4(i) shall not be considered for judging. <strong>If you do not agree to these terms, do not enter the Contest. </strong></span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><strong>Tie-breaker</strong>: In the event of a tie among two or more Submissions, each affected Entrant shall be required to provide an additional Submission that shall be based and judged on the same judging criteria above.   Sponsor, at its sole discretion, shall make the final decision to resolve the tie.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The winners of this Contest will be notified on May 11, 2017 at approximately 10:30 a.m. by a Tweet(s) from @Know365. </span></p><p></p><p></p><p></p><ol style="list-style-type: decimal;"><li><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><strong>Prizes</strong>: The prizes awarded in this Contest are as follows: </span></li></ol><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><strong>ROUND 1: #Know17Games Scavenger Hunt</strong></span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Three (3) winners in descending order of most found items shall win: </span></p><p></p><ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li><span style="font-size: 8pt;">First Place: Apple<sup> ®</sup> Watch. Approximate Retail Value "(ARV"): $399.00.</span></li></ul><p></p><ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Second Place: Mini 3D Printer. ARV: $269.00.</span></li></ul><p></p><ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Third Place: Google Home. ARV: $130.00.</span></li></ul><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><strong>Odds of winning</strong> depend on the number of Submissions received and the Entrant's skill in creating the Submission. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><strong>ROUND 2: #KnowtoConnect</strong></span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">One (1) winner shall win: </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Snap Spectacles. ARV: $130.00</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><strong>Odds of winning</strong> depend on the number of Submissions received and the Entrant's skill in creating the Submission. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><strong>ROUND 3: #Know17Steps</strong></span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">One (1) winner shall win:</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fitbit Alta. ARV: $130.00</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><strong>Odds of winning</strong> depend on the number of Submissions received and the Entrant's skill in creating the Submission. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><strong>ROUND 4: #Know17Trivia; ROUND 5: #WhyIKnow and #HowIKnow; and ROUND 6: #ThanksKnow17:</strong></span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The 9 (nine) winners from Round 4 and twelve (12) winners from Round 5 (6 for #WhyIKnow and 6 for #HowIKnow) and six (6) winners from Round 6 shall each receive a Prize Bag containing two or three of the following items as solely determined by Sponsor: </span></p><p></p><ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">VR glasses.</span></li><li><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Portable chargers.</span></li><li><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Webcam covers.</span></li><li><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Lightning adaptors.</span></li><li><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Selfie Light.</span></li><li><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Tile trackers.</span></li></ul><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">ARV of each Prize Bag: $40.00.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><strong>Odds of winning</strong> depend on the number of Submissions received and the Entrant's skill in creating the Submission. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">To receive the prize, Entrant must be in compliance with these Official Rules as solely determined by the Sponsor. In the event a winner is unable to claim or otherwise utilize the prize, it may be awarded to the next eligible Entrant runner up.     </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><strong>WINNERS MUST PICK UP THEIR PRIZES AT THE DESIGNATED SOCIAL MEDIA LOUNGE AREA BY 1:00 P.M. EDT ON THURSDAY, MAY 11, 2017</strong>. <strong>Prizes will not be shipped or otherwise delivered to a Winner. Failure to claim a prize shall result in its forfeiture. In such an event, Sponsor reserves the right to award a non-claimed prize to an alternate runner up. </strong></span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><strong>ALL FEDERAL, STATE, AND LOCAL TAXES ARE SOLELY THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE WINNER</strong>. Any difference between the stated estimated value of the prize and its actual value will not be awarded.   Winner agrees to accept the prize "as is."   </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Prizes are nonrefundable and nontransferable. Sponsor is not required to (but may, in its sole discretion) offer substitutions, or an alternative to a prize awarded under this Contest.<strong> </strong>In addition, Sponsor reserves the right to substitute a prize of equal or greater value in the event a prize is unavailable. The prizes awarded are subject to the restrictions and limitations noted in these Official Rules, on a prize and/or included with a prize.</span></p><p></p><ol style="list-style-type: decimal;"><li><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><strong>General Entry Rules</strong>: Any individual or Entrant who attempts or otherwise encourages, directly or indirectly, entry under multiple identities, Submissions by or for a proxy individual, and/or uses multiple computers, multiple Twitter accounts, multiple Internet Protocol addresses, so-called "proxy servers," or any software program to manipulate or create multiple Submissions for this Contest, or uses any other device, method, or artifice to enter or encourage, directly or indirectly, multiple or false entries as determined by the Sponsor, will be disqualified. Sponsor, at its sole discretion, reserves the right to review and investigate all entries and to take any and all measures it deems necessary to ensure a fair Contest. Mutilated, lost, illegible, corrupted, or incomplete entries or Submissions that do not conform to these Official Rules will be deemed ineligible, disqualified and void.   </span></li></ol><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the event of a dispute, entry information and the Submission(s) will be declared made by the authorized account holder of the Twitter used at the time of entry.   "Authorized account holder" is defined as the natural person who is assigned a Twitter account by Twitter. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Sponsor and its parent, subsidiaries and affiliates, advertising and promotion agencies, suppliers, printers, and distributors, and their respective officers, directors, employees, representatives and agents and any other person or entity related in any way to this Contest (collectively, the "Contest Entities"), are not responsible for circumstances that may limit or otherwise restrict the ability to participate, including, but not limited to: <span __jive_emoticon_name="info" __jive_macro_name="emoticon" class="jive_emote jive_macro" data-renderedposition="4797.84375_874.578125_16_16" src="/8.0.4.21bdc7e/images/emoticons/info.png"></span> late, incomplete, garbled, or mutilated entries; technical, hardware, or miscellaneous software malfunctions; viruses; network or electronic malfunctions of any kind; (ii) any human error that may occur in winner notification or other Contest-related communications; (iii) or for any printing errors in these Official Rules. If a printing, electronic, or other error results in more prizes being claimed than the number stated in these Official Rules, all persons making purportedly valid claims will be included in a random drawing to award the advertised number of prizes available.   No more than the advertised number of prizes will be awarded. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">If for any reason the Contest cannot be conducted as described in these Official Rules (including infection by computer virus, bugs, worms, tampering, hacking, unauthorized intervention, fraud, technical failures, or any other cause beyond the reasonable control of Contest Entities that corrupts or affects the administration, security, fairness, integrity, or proper conduct of this Contest), then, in such an event, Sponsor shall have the right, at its sole discretion, to cancel, terminate, modify or suspend this Contest and select a winner(s) from entries received prior to the action taken, or as otherwise deemed fair and appropriate by Sponsor.   <strong>SPONSOR RESERVES THE RIGHT TO PROSECUTE ANY FRAUDULENT ENTRIES OR VOTES TO THE FULLEST EXTENT OF THE LAW</strong>.   At Sponsor's sole discretion, Entrants who do not comply with these Official Rules or otherwise attempt to interfere with this Contest in any way may be disqualified.     </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><strong>ALL DECISIONS BY SPONSOR ARE FINAL.   IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THESE OFFICIAL RULES, DO NOT ENTER THE CONTEST.   </strong></span></p><p></p><ol style="list-style-type: decimal;"><li><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><strong>Release and Indemnification</strong>: By entering, Entrants agree to be bound by these Official Rules and the decisions of Sponsor which shall be final for all purposes hereunder, and agree: <span __jive_emoticon_name="info" __jive_macro_name="emoticon" class="jive_emote jive_macro" data-renderedposition="5003.640625_910.0625_16_16" src="/8.0.4.21bdc7e/images/emoticons/info.png"></span> Sponsor, its parent, subsidiaries, affiliates, advertising and promotion agencies may use, edit, and alter their names, likenesses, images, photographs, voices, cities/states of residence, and biographical information and the prize for advertising, trade and promotion in any media or format now or hereafter known, including on the Internet, including, but not limited to, social media applications, or via wireless application protocol, without further compensation, permission or notification, except where prohibited by law; (ii) Entrants acknowledge, understand, and agree that each of them assumes liability for, and all risks of, any and all injuries (including without limitation, personal injury, illness, adverse reaction, or death) or damages caused, or claimed to be caused, by participating in the Contest or the prize, and that Entrants, their heirs, next of kin, spouse, guardians, legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors and assigns, hereby unconditionally and irrevocably release, indemnify, forever discharge and hold the Contest Entities, together with Twitter, harmless from and against any and all claims, demands, liens, agreements, suits, costs, attorneys' fees, damages, judgments, orders, and liabilities of whatever kind or nature in law, equity or otherwise, whether known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, and whether or not concealed or hidden inclusive of any claims for damage to property, personal injury, illness, mental illness, or death, or claims based on defamation, rights of privacy, intellectual property rights, and rights of publicity in any way arising directly or indirectly out of the Entrants' participation in the Contest and/or prizes.</span></li></ol><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Each Entrant hereby waives application of California Civil Code Section 1542 which provides as follows: </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">A GENERAL RELEASE DOES NOT EXTEND TO CLAIMS WHICH THE CREDITOR DOES NOT KNOW OR SUSPECT TO EXIST IN HIS FAVOR AT THE TIME OF EXECUTING THE RELEASE, WHICH IF KNOWN BY HIM MUST HAVE MATERIALLY AFFECTED HIS SETTLEMENT WITH THE DEBTOR. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Each Entrant expressly waives the provisions of Section 1542 of the California Civil Code as well as any other statutes, rules, laws, ordinances, or common law principles or other authority of similar effect of any jurisdiction, and further waive any right to invoke said provisions now or in the future with regard to the Contest.   Entrants and the Winner further acknowledge and agree that this waiver is an essential and material term of these Official Rules and the Contest. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Each winner may be required to complete and sign an Affidavit of Eligibility and Publicity/Liability Release (unless prohibited by law) and other documents as determined by Sponsor in its sole discretion. As applicable, Entrant must return the aforementioned materials to Sponsor or Sponsor's representatives or prize may be forfeited and awarded to the next eligible runner up.   </span></p><p></p><ol style="list-style-type: decimal;"><li><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><span style="background: white;"><strong>ARBITRATION PROVISION</strong></span><span style="background: white;">:<strong> </strong></span>EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT PRE-EMPTED BY FEDERAL OR OTHER APPLICABLE STATE LAW, THE CONTEST SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA, WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO ANY CONFLICT OF LAW PROVISIONS THEREOF. <strong>ENTRANTS UNDERSTAND AND AGREE THAT </strong>ALL CLAIMS, DISPUTES OR CONTROVERSIES BETWEEN ENTRANT AND THE CONTEST ENTITIES SHALL BE RESOLVED BY FINAL AND BINDING ARBITRATION IN THE COUNTY OF ORANGE, STATE OF CALIFORNIA.<strong> BY ENTERING, ENTRANTS VOLUNTARILY AND KNOWINGLY WAIVE ANY RIGHT THEY HAVE TO A JURY TRIAL. </strong>THIS ARBITRATION CONTRACT IS MADE PURSUANT TO A TRANSACTION IN INTERSTATE COMMERCE AND ITS INTERPRETATION, APPLICATION, ENFORCEMENT AND PROCEEDINGS HEREUNDER SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE FEDERAL ARBITRATION ACT ("FAA"), AND CONDUCTED BY JUDICIAL ARBITRATION AND MEDIATION SERVICES, INC. ("JAMS"), IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE JAMS COMPREHENSIVE ARBITRATION RULES. THE TRIBUNAL WILL CONSIST OF ONE ARBITRATOR.   THE PREVAILING PARTY SHALL BE ENTITLED TO AN AWARD OF ITS REASONABLE ATTORNEYS' FEES AND ACTUAL COSTS INCURRED IN SUCH ACTION.   THE ARBITRATOR SHALL BE BOUND TO APPLY AND ENFORCE THE TERMS OF THE OFFICIAL RULES AND THE ARBITRATOR'S DECISION WILL BE FINAL, BINDING, AND ENFORCEABLE IN A COURT OF COMPETENT JURISDICTION.   NEITHER ENTRANT NOR SPONSOR SHALL BE ENTITLED TO JOIN OR CONSOLIDATE CLAIMS IN ARBITRATION BY OR AGAINST OTHER CONSUMERS OR ARBITRATE ANY CLAIM AS A REPRESENTATIVE OR MEMBER OF A CLASS.       </span></li></ol><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">FURTHER, IN ANY SUCH DISPUTE, UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES WILL ENTRANTS BE PERMITTED TO OBTAIN AWARDS FOR, AND THEY HEREBY WAIVE, ALL RIGHTS TO CLAIM PUNITIVE, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OTHER THAN ACTUAL OUT-OF-POCKET EXPENSES (I.E. COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH ENTERING THIS CONTEST), AND THEY FURTHER WAIVE ALL RIGHTS TO HAVE DAMAGES MULTIPLIED OR INCREASED. </span><br/><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span><br/><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span></p><ol style="list-style-type: decimal;"><li><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><strong>Digital Millennium Copyright Act:</strong></span></li></ol><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Pursuant to the Digital Millennium Copyright Act ("DMCA"), if an individual or an entity has a good faith belief that a Submission provided by an Entrant infringes upon any third-party copyright, please notify Sponsor by email at <a title="galnotices@servicenow.com" href="mailto:legalnotices@servicenow.com">legalnotices@servicenow.com</a> with the subject line stating "Copyright." The DMCA notice MUST include the following elements: <span __jive_emoticon_name="info" __jive_macro_name="emoticon" class="jive_emote jive_macro" data-renderedposition="5672.625_618.484375_16_16" src="/8.0.4.21bdc7e/images/emoticons/info.png"></span> a description of the alleged infringement in detail; (ii) the name of the copyright owner who retains authorized use; (iii) the URL(s) where the alleged infringement can be located; (iv) a statement indicating your authorization to file a DMCA complaint; (v) how you may be contacted; and (vi) the following statement:   </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">"<em>I have a good faith belief that use of the copyrighted material described above is not authorized by the copyright owner or its agent, nor is such use otherwise permissible under law.   I declare, under penalty of perjury, that the information presented herein is accurate, that I am authorized to represent the copyright holder, and I have a good faith belief that the use is infringing.</em>"</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is understood that Twitter may utilize a separate DMCA notification process for which Sponsor is in no way responsible. </span></p><p></p><ol style="list-style-type: decimal;"><li><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><strong>Winners List and Official Rules</strong>: You may request the name of the winners by sending a self-addressed, stamped envelope by July 11,2017 to ServiceNow, 2225 Lawson Lane Santa Clara, CA   95054, Attn: Know17 Social Contest. During the Contest Period, Official Rules requests may be sent to the aforementioned email address.   </span></li></ol><p></p><ol style="list-style-type: decimal;"><li><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><strong>Social Media Participation</strong>:<strong> </strong>Twitter in no way sponsors, endorses, administers, or is otherwise associated with, the Contest.   </span></li></ol><p></p><ol style="list-style-type: decimal;"><li><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><strong>Privacy Policy</strong>: Personal information provided by the Entrant to enter the Contest is subject to the Sponsor's Privacy Policy, which can be found at <a title="ww.servicenow.com/privacy-statement.html" href="https://www.servicenow.com/privacy-statement.html">https://www.servicenow.com/privacy-statement.html</a>.</span></li></ol><p></p><ol style="list-style-type: decimal;"><li><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><strong>Sponsor</strong>: ServiceNow, 2225 Lawson Lane Santa Clara, CA   95054.</span></li></ol><p></p><ol style="list-style-type: decimal;"><li><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><strong>Copyright Notice: </strong>The Contest and all accompanying materials are copyright </span></li></ol><p><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> © 2017 ServiceNow.   All rights are reserved.     </span></p>