---
title: "Service Now dancing with Azure"
date: 2017-05-13T15:48:04.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=c1bd2aa9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619fd"
---
<p>For those of you who are unfamiliar, the Microsoft product known as Azure is an example of what is now known as Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) ). In practical terms what Azure actually is, are a number of tightly integrated cloud services that offers IT professionals opportunity to build, use, deploy and manage applications that are configured in a network of data centre, with little overhead and from a single dashboard. In this demo, I walk through a Service Now, Microsoft Azure integration from end to end, from how to obtain an account for Azure highlighting some of the potential pitfalls. This video can be used as a guide, but I would also suggest reviewing the linked to</p><p></p><p>In the demonstration below, I will be walking you through how to integrate the Service Now Platform as a Service (PaaS), Microsoft Azure (IaaS). The video provides an end to end description of the steps required, from how to obtain an account for Azure, to auto-provisioning users accounts from your Azure domains into Service Now. And highlighting some of the potential pitfalls along the way.</p><p></p><p>Before you begin, as a prerequisite you will require a Service Now instance, preferably the Istanbul release or later, installed with the Multiple Provider Single Sign-On Enhanced UI plugin. If you require instruction on how to install the Multiple Provider Single Sign-On Enhanced UI plugin please review the article linked to below:</p><p></p><p><a title="Configuring Single-Sign-ON via the user interface" __default_attr="6523" __jive_macro_name="blogpost" class="jive_macro jive_macro_blogpost" data-orig-content="Configuring Single-Sign-ON via the user interface" data-renderedposition="262_8_328_16" href="/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=e04daee5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96193d">Configuring Single-Sign-ON via the user interface</a></p><p></p><p>Also, I would suggest reviewing the article linked to before departing:</p><p></p><p><a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/active-directory-saas-servicenow-tutorial" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/active-directory-saas-servicenow-tutorial</a></p><p></p><p><iframe src="https://youtube.com/embed/oUIq3Ue1djE" width="440" height="330"/></p><p></p><p></p><p></p><p>In the video, I highlight that the scripts within Azure responsible for configuring the integration with Service Now set the <em>NameID Policy</em> with a<em> nameid format</em> parameter as follows:   <span style="font-family: 'courier new', courier;">urn:oasis:names:</span>tc<span style="font-family: 'courier new', courier;">:SAML:1.1:</span>nameid<span style="font-family: 'courier new', courier;">-format:unspecified </span></p><p></p><p>Now the above configuration is all very well good if the service provider is configured in a manner to manage it. Typically, the <em>nameid format</em> parameter is set to the following:</p><p><span style="font-family: 'courier new', courier;">urn:oasis:names:</span>tc<span style="font-family: 'courier new', courier;">:SAML:1.1:</span>nameid<span style="font-family: 'courier new', courier;">-format:emailAddress</span>.</p><p></p><p>When configured as above the <em>nameid format</em> is treated as the username and there is no requirement for an alias lookup service to be performed. To successfully complete your Azure/Service Now integration I would advise that you use <span style="font-family: 'courier new', courier;">emailAddress</span> as in the <em>nameid format</em> parameter</p>