---
title: "Debuting The Afternoon Show and Chad or rather DontBeChad"
date: 2017-05-11T02:20:34.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=441e6e2ddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961972"
---
<p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><strong>During today's Knowledge17 Security Keynote, "The Afternoon Show", we introduced the world to Chad, or rather…. #DontBeChad.</strong></span></p><p></p><p>Chad is a very confident and very smart security analyst, but he represents the past.   While he might have the latest security tools for protecting and detecting threats to his organization's data, Chas uses immature, manual processes to respond to security incidents and vulnerabilities.   Chad's security response process includes emails, spreadsheets and phone calls — making it impossible for Chad to adequately respond to security alerts.</p><p></p><p>Chad's work is even harder because there are simply not enough Chads to go around.   In the United States alone, nearly one of every 3.3 jobs in cybersecurity is unfilled! (Source <a title="berseek.org/heatmap.html" href="http://cyberseek.org/heatmap.html">http://cyberseek.org/heatmap.html</a> )   No wonder it takes security professionals like Chad an average of 201 days to identify a breach and 70 days to contain a breach. (Ponemon Institute, 2016 Cost of a Data Breach)</p><p></p><p>During today's Security Keynote, we launched a pair of attacks against Chad's environment and also launched the same attacks against a ServiceNow test environment equipped with ServiceNow Security Operations.   After we launched the attacks, Chad immediately began working on a severe alert that had appeared to be a "Hailstorm" attack.   He researched the attack, was on the phone with various IT staff, sent emails to colleagues at other companies, and tracked information about his progress in a spreadsheet on his laptop.   He became increasingly frustrated during the keynote and at the end of the keynote, he was still working to solve the problem.</p><p></p><p>Meanwhile, in the ServiceNow Security Operations test environment, the same Hailstorm attack also appeared but another incident with a "suspicious file" was ranked as higher priority.   We quickly determined that it even though Hailstorm was typically a more severe attack, the suspicious file was attacking infrastructure that was more business critical. This caused us to work on the incident with the suspicious file first.   And workflow, automation and orchestration allowed us to quickly investigate the issue, understand the depth of the problem and very quickly get it contained and solved within minutes.</p><p></p><p>At the end of the keynote, Chad was still working on the Hailstorm incident with no end in sight. And had not even noticed the suspicious file attack which was actively going after more critical data in his organizations. He spent the keynote working on the wrong attack!</p><p></p><p>ServiceNow Security Operations found and solved the right attack because it transforms your security program from the manual processes of the past to a structured, enterprise security response engine of the future.   You can easily integrate your security incident and vulnerability data from your existing security tools into Security Operations.   It uses intelligent workflows, automation, orchestration and a deep connection with IT to prioritize and resolve threats based on the impact they pose to your organization.</p><p></p><p>We'll keep an eye on Chad for the coming days, weeks and months, checking his progress against our attack and wondering when he's going to notice that he's completely missed the more business critical attack — the suspicious file.</p><p></p><p>#DontBeChad.</p><p><em> </em></p>