---
title: "Monday Musings on Customer Service May  "
date: 2017-05-15T20:42:50.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=689ceae1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961977"
---
<p>In this week's Monday Musings I had planned for a recap of Knowledge17, ServiceNow's customer-led conference which offers amazing stories in customer-led breakout sessions, current and future product information from development teams, hands-on labs, and updates from ServiceNow's partner ecosystem. But then I attempted to travel back from Orlando and inspiration found me in the most inopportune way: a travel issue. To make a long story short, my flight went from a slight delay due to a mechanical problem to a significant delay impacting my connection in Denver and ultimately resulting in an additional night stay in Orlando with the airline compensating me a $10 voucher for a meal (and that voucher only available for use inside the airport).</p><p></p><p>It's unfortunate that modern air travel has deteriorated to the point where the poor level of service has become a cliché. Rather than write a lengthy complaint reporting every detail, however, I intend to use this space to indicate areas where I have suggestions for improvement. I will frame these in the areas of how I've described great service in prior posts - effortless, connected, and proactive service - these being how ServiceNow enables companies to provide the highest levels of customer service. Some of my recommendations might be obvious, while others might seem unusual (but not beyond the airline industry's abilities). </p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">High Effort and Little Return</span></h1><p>When I realized my connection in Denver was at risk, I immediately contacted the airlines' customer service by phone. In the loud and chaotic space of the airplane (where my call originated) and then continuing into the equally disorderly gate area, hearing and understanding the agent was already a challenge. The loud setting for this call was beyond my control and that of the airline; however, the agent was working in what sounded like an equally loud and disruptive environment, requiring me to ask her to repeat nearly every statement. Once I found a more secluded area of the airport to continue the call, my challenges in understanding the agent were still present. If the agent's workspace were less noisy, not only would we have more quickly completed our interaction but I suspect the stress on both of us - me, the displaced traveler and her, the agent assisting distressed customers, one after the next - would have been reduced.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Disconnected Processes</span></h1><p>I promised not to go into detail about my travel saga, but I will say my first call to customer service did not completely resolve my return travel arrangements. As that first call took place, the length of the flight delay was extended from minutes to hours, and my updated connection in Denver was now an impossibility. While continued delays in mechanical situations isn't uncommon, the most interesting part is this: a third-party smartphone app I use alerted me to the new four-hour delay prior to that first call concluding; I just didn't see it appear on my phone because I had my phone to my ear tightly and was struggling to hear and understand that conversation.</p><p></p><p>If a third-party app (not affiliated with the airline in any way) tied into their scheduling system was aware of the new delay, why wasn't the agent? Why didn't the agent's system immediately alert her that the itinerary she was about to book would no longer work? (This failure to see a significant detail prompted a subsequent call - with a wait on hold and another challenging conversation to hear.)</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Proactive Failure</span></h1><p>Some partial credit is due to the airline in the area of proactive service. While still on the plane, the airline had recognized that several passengers were going to have issues making their connections and began the work of rebooking them. I was included in that group. This all sounds very positive, except for the fact they failed to notify me of this - either via their own proprietary smartphone app which I was also monitoring, text message, email, or telephone call. I always sign up for each of these alert options when I travel, so they could easily have contacted me over any of these channels.</p><p></p><p>No, instead they chose to page me over the airport intercom. And by this, I mean they paged me to their <em>customer service desk</em> - hidden between gates, with over a dozen customers already lined up by the time I find it - rather than to the <em>specific gate of the new flight</em> they've booked me on. Meanwhile, I'm working with a customer service agent unaware that I've been rebooked (another failure in the area of connected service).</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Small Changes Produce Great Results</span></h1><p>I've pointed out only a few of the failures on the airline's part to address my disrupted service experience. There were more I could point out, but these examples fall cleanly into our effortless, connected, and proactive service themes. None of my improvement suggestions to avoid or address these issues would be complex; the airline has simply failed to examine the customer experience to provide the best possible solutions when these problems occur. Come back next week and I will share a similar situation and how a competing airline responded, with very different results.</p>