---
title: "Unlearn Series  Workaround  Avoid update to dot walked fields"
date: 2017-05-25T11:08:47.000Z
authors: ["Kalaiarasan Pushpanathan"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=9bad66a9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961984"
---
<p>Adding dot walked field to the form provides a quick way to see the related information on the same form without requiring you to hover over fields or navigating to the related records. It also saves us from creating extra fields or scripts to display the information required.</p><p></p><p>I ran into a strange issue and had opened a question on community.</p><p><a title="How to avoid updates to dot walked fields" __default_attr="263178" __jive_macro_name="thread" class="jive_macro_thread jive_macro" data-orig-content="How to avoid updates to dot walked fields" data-renderedposition="94_8_281_16" href="/community?id=community_question&sys_id=07680beddb1cdbc01dcaf3231f9619a7">How to avoid updates to dot walked fields</a></p><p></p><p>The issue was simple. I had dot walked a list field on the form and had made it read-only. But even when the field was read-only, it was getting updated/was replacing the content of the original record's field, when the form containing the dot walked field was being saved. I had opened up HI ticket in parallel which ended up being recognized as a problem.</p><p></p><p>In the meantime to resolve the issue, I came up with a simple workaround using a before update business rule. Create a business rule on the table whose record is dot walked on the form.</p><p>Add a condition as below and abort the action using 'Abort action' checkbox.</p><p></p><p><strong>Condition :</strong></p><p>gs.getSession().isInteractive() &amp;&amp; gs.action.getGlideURI().toString().indexOf('table name on which the record is dot walked.do?')&gt;-1</p><p></p><p><strong>Example:</strong> Let us consider that Change request's watchlist field is being dot-walked on incident table. Then the business rule would need to be created on change request table and the condition would be as below</p><p>gs.getSession().isInteractive() &amp;&amp; gs.action.getGlideURI().toString().indexOf('incident.do?')&gt;-1</p><p></p><p>Hope this helps someone in need.</p>