---
title: "Monday Musings on Customer Service May  "
date: 2017-05-22T20:20:58.000Z
authors: ["paulselby"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=fc5d2629dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961981"
---
<p>Last week, I shared <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=689ceae1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961977">my less-than-ideal experience</a> flying back from ServiceNow's Knowledge17 conference. As promised, this week I will compare and contrast that experience with that of a competing airline during a return trip from Hawaii last summer. To set the stage, this was a very similar scenario except the plane was about an hour out from Hawaii over the Pacific Ocean. The captain announced over the intercom we would be returning to Honolulu as there was a mechanical issue. </p><p></p><p>Let that sink in a bit. On a plane with a mechanical issue. One hour out. Over water.</p><p></p><p>We obviously made it to safety and while the outstanding service by the flight crew - mostly around keeping the drinks flowing for passengers - is worth mentioning, my story will recount what happened once we landed.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Effortless Direction</span></h1><p>To put things in perspective, there were over 300 passengers on this flight. That's a lot of people, many of whom probably had experienced some level of fear, frustration, or other emotion from the point of the captain's announcement to landing at the airport. As soon as we landed to sighs of relief and applause, we deplaned, and what might have been a giant fiasco was handled with skill by the airline staff. Remember, there are 300 of us now trying to understand what to do.</p><p></p><p>Passengers were directed by the airline personnel to baggage claim first, to claim luggage. Every so often along that path - from the gate and beyond - stood a representative, ready to answer questions and direct. Once luggage was claimed, passengers were pointed to shuttle buses from a third-party standing by to take them to a hotel.</p><p></p><p>The comparison here from my experience documented last week was in anticipating the needs of the customers. While in last week's story an attempt was made to rebook me, that information was not shared easily and quickly enough with me, and as a result, I was left to calling the service center and wandering around in search of a customer service desk in the airport.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Connecting Service Across Companies</span></h1><p>The airline had definitely been orchestrating things once across different third-party service providers once the decision was made to turn the plane back to Hawaii. I mentioned the shuttle buses at-the-ready for customers. The shuttle service's staff was friendly and efficient loading the weary, distressed, and frustrated customers onto the coaches.</p><p></p><p>Once at the hotel, it looked like all hand's on deck at the registration desk. There were five or six registration stations open. Mind you, with 300 people lined up to check-in this process was not completed quickly. The airline had been lucky in that there was one hotel, of adequate quality, available to accommodate so many displaced travelers. While this eliminated the need to coordinate drop-offs for the night and pick-ups the next morning across multiple locations, passengers might have been checked-in and resting sooner had multiple hotels been used. That said, check-in was completed as quickly as possible.</p><p></p><p>This was not the first nor the last time this airline would need to serve customers disrupted in their travel. They definitely had a set of protocols they followed that included the use of third parties, and from what I experienced, they executed very well. Unlike last week, the shuttle to the hotel and the overnight stay were ready and paid for by the airline directly - no need for me to find my own services and to incur my own cost (and attempt reimbursement afterward).</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Proactive Considerations</span></h1><p>An amazing example of this airline's proactive service occurred soon after we landed. I received an email from their customer service team apologizing for the inconvenience and an offer of $400 future travel vouchers for myself and my wife. They recognized the inconvenience this had created and wanted the opportunity to serve me again.</p><p></p><p>Having the shuttle buses and hotel informed and ready for a deluge of customers also definitely falls into the category of proactively anticipating the needs of customers. Likewise, at hotel check-in, each passenger was provided with a $25 voucher for dinner and $10 for breakfast the next morning - more than enough for meals, and available to use anywhere (unlike only at the airport as in last week's story).</p><p></p><p>Again, this is in contrast to the other airline which required me to write an email to seek some sort of compensation for the additional travel costs incurred.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Anticipating Service Disruptions</span></h1><p>There's no avoiding it: product and service issues are bound to occur. I shared two nearly identical travel situations from two different airlines, with very different responses to the disruption. When problems occur in your business with products or services, how are you responding? Have you considered the experience from the customer's perspective? Are you anticipating their needs and have a plan to consistently provide relief? Having a plan and executing well might be what creates customers who sing your praises and stay with you despite choice among competitors. I know which airline I will prefer to use in the future.</p>