---
title: "Monday Musings on Customer Service May  "
date: 2017-05-29T05:17:18.000Z
authors: ["paulselby"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=f84ee2addbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961939"
---
<p>For those U.S. citizens at home and abroad, I wish you a Happy Memorial Day. ServiceNow observes this holiday in the U.S. and I hope you are spending it with family and friends and remembering the sacrifice of those who served our country. As I have the day off from work, I am writing my blog in advance and it will be automatically posted Monday morning.</p><p></p><p>---</p><p></p><p>This past week, I attended the <a title="w.epicor.com/customers/insights/default.aspx" href="http://www.epicor.com/customers/insights/default.aspx">Epicor Insights 2017</a> user conference. <a title="ww.servicenow.com/customers/epicor.html" href="https://www.servicenow.com/customers/epicor.html">Epicor</a> was one of the first customers to adopt ServiceNow's Customer Service Management and has been highly successful on their journey of revamping their customer service business; in fact, they told a few stories about their accomplishments to-date at the show. Epicor had invited ServiceNow to speak at a session as well as to host a booth at their expo, so a small group of us traveled to Nashville to attend.</p><p></p><p>I really enjoy working the booth at trade shows. Despite what might seem a long day, hearing the stories visitors have to tell is a big high point for me, and I never cease to be amazed by their tales. Some of that amazement comes from learning about businesses I never realized existed. Equally, I hear interesting stories of how these businesses provide customer service to their customers. At events like Insights, once I learn what their business is and what role they play in the business, my conversation typically revolves around three topics: the need to provide amazing customer service, how to efficiently service customers, and the art of the possible.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Is amazing customer service necessary?</span></h1><p>When I pose this question to booth visitors, I receive a lot of different responses. At Insights, a large majority of the customers I spoke with were manufacturers of some sort, and often providing their finished materials to other businesses in their local market. When I brought up the concept of delivering amazing customer service, it was sometimes a bit foreign to them - something they hadn't considered the need for or if even they felt they were providing it.</p><p></p><p>When I dug a little deeper into the reasons why they might want to deliver amazing customer service, they did indicate pressures were there to differentiate themselves. Other local competition was present, as well as the threat of Internet-based suppliers scooping away customers with lower-priced goods. But what came next out of the mouths of many of my visitors on this topic was interesting.</p><p></p><p>Many said their salespeople also provided their service. This wasn't particularly surprising to me. A lof of them didn't have a designated customer service organization; this was typically because their customers were accustomed to contacting their salesperson who knew their business and needs well and issues could be resolved quickly. So amazing (and personal) customer service was something they were really already providing. As we talked, they would quickly agree that as their business grew, the ability to provide service from sales might not be realistic, but for now it was working.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Is efficiency needed?</span></h1><p>The next topic of conversation was around the most common, highest volume calls or emails their businesses received. Every business has them. At the show, some typical categories for these type of inquiries included order or shipping status, billing issues, product information requests, and warranty claims. These to be pretty typical for any business.</p><p></p><p>At this point in our conversation, I would point out that while all customer contact is valuable and provides a means of interacting directly with a customer and delivering excellent, personal service, many of these high volume calls were not especially of high value. They are repetitive and easy to answer and not particularly challenging for the responder to address, and thus great candidates to provide a self-service option for. In fact, I would point out that <a title="ogs.forrester.com/kate_leggett/16-01-28-online_self_service_dominates_yet_again_why_its_an_effortless_way_to_get_to_your_answers" href="http://blogs.forrester.com/kate_leggett/16-01-28-online_self_service_dominates_yet_again_why_its_an_effortless_way_to_get_to_your_answers">most customers prefer self-service</a>. Also, especially in the cases where sales was also providing customer service, was this the best possible use of their time?</p><p></p><p><span style="color: #e23d39; font-size: 24px; font-weight: bold;">Art of the possible</span></p><p>This led to discussing what's possible today with a modern customer service solution such as ServiceNow Customer Service Management. When I talked about the idea of providing automated, self-service solutions for these types of low-value questions, I could see my visitor's eyes light up. With that added time in their day, their customer service (or sales) personnel could focus on higher value activities: perhaps it's solving more complex issues, or investing in more self-service options. In the case of their sales team, perhaps it's focusing on expanding sales to existing customers or prospecting for new clients. All things being equal, wouldn't you want your staff putting their time into activities that help save the business money or build and grow the business instead of responding to the same issues?</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">See you soon?</span></h1><p>Attending a conference and accompanying trade show can be an eye opener. There are presentations and expo halls full of new ideas and solutions to consider. I'm sure most didn't expect to visit the ServiceNow booth at Epicor Insights and receive a one-on-one consultation from me, but I'm passionate to share what's possible in elevating customer service while also saving a company time and money. I really enjoyed speaking with everyone who stopped by and hopefully some of the ideas we worked through together are being taken back to their businesses this week for additional consideration.</p><p></p><p>Our next major event is <a title="ww.callcenterweek.com/" href="https://www.callcenterweek.com/">Call Center Week</a> in Las Vegas, June 26th to 30th. Will wee see you there? Come find us, we'll be in the expo hall with a large presence. We love talking about how your company can deliver effortless, connected and proactive customer service!</p>