---
title: "Monday Musings on Customer Service June  "
date: 2017-06-05T21:28:42.000Z
authors: ["paulselby"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=04fc22a5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619d0"
---
<p>Many companies today are putting thought, discussion, and work into a concept known as "the customer experience," also known by its shorthand "CX." Are you familiar with the idea? Let's start with the short wikipedia.org definition:</p><p></p><p style="padding-left: 30px;"><em>In commerce, customer experience (CX) is the product of an interaction between an organization and a customer over the duration of their relationship.</em></p><p></p><p>You can read the full definition <a title="n.wikipedia.org/wiki/Customer_experience" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Customer_experience">here</a>. Customer experience begins with awareness and marketing - the first time a customer becomes informed of your product or service and considers purchasing. From there, it includes all the various roads a customer might travel as they use a company's product or service. The question is whether that road is one providing smooth, continuous, worry-free travel or a road fraught with traffic, potholes, and other obstructions.</p><p></p><p>It's very obvious, then, that <strong>customer service</strong> plays a large role in <strong>customer experience</strong> from the perspective of assisting customers when they find themselves in need, but it can play an even greater role and have a larger impact when your customer service is <em>effortless</em>, <em>connected</em>, and <em>proactive</em>.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Effortless Service</span></h1><p>... also known as the obvious influence on customer experience. Make no mistake, offering customer service that is minimal effort for the customer is table stakes for providing an outstanding customer experience. Effortless service for the customer starts with a providing them multiple channels of engagement: while some might always reach for the telephone, others might prefer email, chat, or social media. Provide service where your customers are looking for it and you've made it easier and more comfortable for them to interact.</p><p></p><p>Ready to deliver the next level of effortless customer service? Offer self-service capabilities online. Available twenty-four hours a day, self-service can come in many forms, but knowledge articles, <a title="ervicematters.servicenow.com/increase-customer-loyalty-by-personalizing-service-with-servicenow-communities/" href="https://servicematters.servicenow.com/increase-customer-loyalty-by-personalizing-service-with-servicenow-communities/">communities</a>, and automation offer the most value to customers while benefiting your company with lower-cost support options. And <a title="ogs.forrester.com/kate_leggett/16-01-28-online_self_service_dominates_yet_again_why_its_an_effortless_way_to_get_to_your_answers" href="http://blogs.forrester.com/kate_leggett/16-01-28-online_self_service_dominates_yet_again_why_its_an_effortless_way_to_get_to_your_answers">customers' preference for self-service</a> is high.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Connected Service</span></h1><p>When customer service stands alone - in fact, when all departments in a company operate in silos - the customer experience quickly falls apart. Why? While customer service will always serve as the champion of the customers' needs, their ability to address issues will be limited if they are not connected to other departments within an organization ... and if they are limited in their ability to engage with other departments, there are no true solutions to problems; just one-time fixes and workarounds.</p><p></p><p>Connecting problems coming into customer service to the respective departments that can address them - product issues to development or manufacturing, shipping issues to fulfillment or the warehouse, billing issues to finance, etc. - has two impacts on customer experience. First, for the customer or customers experiencing or soon-to-experience the issue, the resolution will be significantly faster because the issue will be in the hands of the team that can affect a true solution. Second, by diagnosing and addressing the root cause, the issue will not recur - a positive influence on customer experience for future customers.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Proactive Service</span></h1><p>Customer issues are rarely unique and limited to a single customer. In fact, one customer call or email might be the signal for a large issue looming on the horizon. While this might sound like doom-and-gloom, this is actually a great opportunity to positively affect the customer experience.</p><p></p><p>As a solution is being developed across teams (because your organization has <em>connected service</em>), analysis will indicate not only the potential scope across the customer base but also the specific individuals or companies who will be impacted. Turn the negative situation around and demonstrate how your company is different when it comes to customer service. Rather than requiring the customers who are likely to experience this problem to reach out for service, proactively notify them you are aware of the problem, a solution is forthcoming, and you will provide it as soon as it is available. Not only have you avoided additional calls, emails, or chats into the service center for an issue you're aware of but you have impressed the customer with your attention to service.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Improving Your Customer Experience</span></h1><p>While it may be your intent to deliver the best possible customer experience, there's always that potential for a problem to occur along the way. Providing an excellent customer experience is the difference between a one-time sale and ongoing loyalty, and getting that experience right - anticipating every possible circumstance a customer might encounter - can be challenging. Its work is ongoing. </p><p></p><p>Start by nailing an effortless service experience. Provide easy channels to live agents and self-service. Follow that by using the benefits of connected and proactive service to solve problems faster across teams and preemptively notify customers when issues appear. When problems arise, they are now occasions that are more easily addressed while driving improvements to the customer experience.</p>