---
title: "Gartner Security  Risk Management Summit   Day One Nobodys Perfect"
date: 2017-06-13T02:31:22.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=f98d6669dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619cd"
---
<p><strong><em>Perfect is the enemy of good enough.</em></strong></p><p></p><p>Is that not the sentiment you were expecting out of the first day of Gartner's annual Security &amp; Risk Management Summit? The morning keynote, presented by Neil MacDonald, Eric Ahlm, and Ramon Krikken, was a wealth of quotable phrases, including "ambiguity is the new reality" and "embrace the grey." They encouraged moving away from the binary extremes of good and bad when it comes to security and instead embracing Continuous Adaptive Risk and Trust Assessment or CARTA.</p><p></p><p>Continuous assessment is about making security good enough instead of perfect, as perfection (keeping all of the bad stuff out and the good stuff in) simply isn't achievable. It's better for an organization to maintain an acceptable level of risk, adapt to changing conditions, and respond quickly when problems occur.</p><p></p><p>For example, say an employee wants to download a sensitive file onto his unmanaged mobile device. In a black and white security world, the response might be to block the request. CARTA advises taking multiple factors into account, such as the value of the asset, historical behavior, the organization's risk tolerance, and more, before making a more nuanced decision. Maybe in this case, encrypting the file before download is the better balance of security and usability.</p><p></p><p>CARTA's different approach to security is about adapting to keep up with evolving technology and malicious actors. Security teams are often overwhelmed today because there are too many vendors, products, consoles, and alerts, and not enough staff to deal with it all. Ahlm recommended using data analytics and automation to speed up an organization's mean time to detect incidents and the mean time to respond. Both of these tools help understaffed security teams do more with less.</p><p></p><p>Gartner analyst Rob MacMillan also spoke about automation in his Top Security Predictions for 2017 session, saying, "If automation scares you, then you're in the wrong industry." In fact, investment in automation, orchestration, AI, and machine learning is expected to more than triple by 2020. ServiceNow's own Myke Lyons spoke at the conference today about automation that won't get you fired—you can check out his <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/community/security-risk/blog/2016/10/14/security-automation-that-won-t-get-you-fired">blog post</a> on the topic.</p><p></p><p>One topic in particular stood out to me: vulnerability response. It's not new or shiny, but it came up in three different sessions from Gartner analysts, some putting it more bluntly than others. Zero-day vulnerabilities, while scary-sounding, are expected to account for less than 0.1% of attacks through 2020. Known vulnerabilities will continue to be the main target for exploits.</p><p></p><p>But zero-day threats tend to remain a focus of protection products. In his session on endpoint malware protection, Gartner analyst Ian McShane called it "zero-day fever," stating that in most organizations, patch management isn't aligned with commonly targeted vulnerabilities. All three sessions emphasized the importance of patching known vulnerabilities to reduce an organization's attack surface.</p><p></p><p>If you're at the Gartner Security &amp; Risk Summit, come by booth #326 to say hello and maybe get a quick demo of ServiceNow's vulnerability response application to see how workflows and automation can help reduce your vulnerability backlog.</p>