---
title: "Monday Musings on Customer Service June  "
date: 2017-06-19T21:22:18.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=2cdd26e9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619d1"
---
<p>If you've read some of my postings here, you know I love a good customer service story, especially one that I can share from my day-to-day life. I have a new one to entertain you this week and it's really about where connected systems and processes helped make good service possible. It's a bit of an epic tale, as it involves a warranty service claim, the corresponding interaction of two companies, and field repair.</p><p></p><p>As background, let share my family and I have been living in the same house for over fourteen years now. We are the original owners and while it's by no means an old house, just like anything else things start breaking. A friend of my wife had discovered a home warranty company a few years ago and related her positive experiences with it. After hearing that story, we decided some protection might save us from some very large unexpected expenses (of course replaced with an ongoing smaller bill - perhaps I reveal my initial skepticism with that comment). We signed up for the home warranty and waited for something to break. And break things did.</p><p></p><p>We've had this warranty for almost two years now, and this story involves our third use of it. In this case, our laundry washing machine had started to make a pretty bad noise a week or two ago. Fearful of it giving up at any time, we checked our warranty service coverage and initiated the claims process online. With that as background, let's get into the story.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Integrated Processes</span></h1><p>One of my initial concerns with signing up for this warranty service was that they did not actually provide the repair service. Instead, they rely on in-area contractors to diagnose and repair issues. This, to me, sounded like a problem because I imagined the warranty service had little to no visibility and control of the availability and quality of the work. On top of that, they don't work with just one contractor for appliances so I wondered how "close" they might actually be to the work being performed. </p><p></p><p>These concerns have been proven wrong in each situation thus far because after an online claim is submitted to the warranty company, within a day (sometimes only hours) a third-party repair company will contact us about setting an appointment. When those different third parties have contacted us, all details in terms of our contact information and address, the appliance information (make, model, serial number, etc.), as well as the problem has been clearly communicated to them. This seems like a small thing in the 21st century, but I consider it a minor miracle that two companies are able to easily exchange information like that. </p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Coordinated Service</span></h1><p>Our experience with the connected nature of the warranty company to their contractors hasn't stopped there. For this repair, we were contacted by a repair company we had not yet worked with - it was a national one, whose name you would recognize - to schedule our diagnosis visit. Like the repairs in the past, once the appointment was scheduled, they provided an automated reminder call the day before, the option to reschedule the visit from that automated call or by visiting their website, as well as an additional telephone update as to the arrival window on the repair day. The technician arrived in the expected timeframe. </p><p></p><p>Before I continue the story, let's have a sidebar conversation about my prior experiences with most warranty service claims directly with appliance manufacturers. I don't know about you, but I've had very mixed results. While I've found them also to typically also use third-party repair services, the entire process from end-to-end isn't always cohesive. This includes everything from scheduling challenges to the repair person arriving not knowing what the problem was (or even what appliance was broken). These previous events fed into my concerns about buying the warranty. Let's return to the story now...</p><p></p><p>Once the technician determined the issue (a broken bolt holding the inner wash basin to the frame) and a diagnosis was proposed (replacing not just the bolt, but the basin as well), the technician set out to determine the limits of my coverage. He was able to look up the terms and conditions of my warranty specific to this type of repair on his laptop, using a tool that proposed the next step. Due to the nature and cost (the estimated parts and labor to fix the issue coming in close to the price of a new washing machine), he called the warranty company directly to verify they didn't want to simply replace the entire unit to which he was told to proceed with the repair.</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Proper Technology</span></h1><p>Once the next step was determined, the technician proceeded to set my expectations. Rounding out the connected extent of this entire process, the technician and I sat down as he walked me through things on his laptop:</p><p></p><ul><li>The availability and location of the two parts had been determined, they have been ordered, and he indicated the estimated ship time to my house.</li><li>The software tool he was using indicated the nature of the repair would require an additional technician to assist (due to the weight of the basin).</li><li>The software also estimated the amount of time necessary to complete the repair.</li><li>With these last two bits of information, the next available scheduling window - taking estimated time for parts to arrive, additional technician availability, and repair time needed into account - was proposed and agreed upon. </li><li>... and finally, he printed a receipt from a portable printer detailing the amount of my deductible, what the cost would have been without coverage, and a confirmation of the planned repair date.</li></ul><p></p><p>I told him being able to accomplish these steps so easily on-the-spot - without additional calls, emails, and waiting - was great. He agreed and added that this particular home warranty company with the proprietary software system that made this all possible was better than most (including the national company he works for).</p><p></p><h1><span style="color: #e23d39;">Connected Service Is Possible!</span></h1><p>When an appliance is close to failing or has failed, that's often just the beginning of the inconvenience. What's to follow is finding a repair company, a time that works for you and the company to diagnose the issue, acquire replacement parts (usually requiring an order - they're never just on-hand), and then scheduling a repair. Often much of the complications in this process arise from the failure to communicate, between the manufacturer or warranty provider and the third-party repair service.</p><p></p><p>Successful service delivery by two separate companies requiring onsite repair and involving a warranty claim is possible! (I never thought I'd write a sentence like that, but there it is.) I've now experienced it on three separate occasions. From what I've observed, what makes this possible is no surprise: connected technology and processes are the cornerstones to this achievement. Only with good integration and exchange of information can such a complex processes be executed seamlessly and to the delight of customers.</p>