---
title: "Leveraging your existing HR data to become more proactive"
date: 2017-06-23T19:46:15.000Z
authors: ["Sarah Means"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=10edeae9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961902"
---
<p style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11.0pt;">Many customers are able to track and find some great metrics and action items from the reports that ServiceNow makes available. Things like giving your managers insight into the teams workload, understanding how long it really takes for cases to be completed and easily take action on anything that doesn't seem "quite right". But what if you could take that one step further and be more proactive and predictive about those same scenarios so important items don't get ignored?</p><p></p><p style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11.0pt;">With the ServiceNow platform we have the capabilities to help managers get in front of possibly "dangerous" situation before they get out of hand. One great way to do this is using a free application from our Share site (servicenow.share.com) called TrendSeeker.</p><p></p><p style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11.0pt;">TrendSeeker allows your HR teams to set some simple predictive parameters that will spin off an action to be followed up on. Lets explore some examples of how this could be of use:</p><p></p><ol style="margin-left: 0.375in; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; list-style-type: decimal;"><li><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Identifying a hostile working environment in one of your locations. We could set up TrendSeeker to flag if 3 or more employee relations or disciplinary cases were submitted for the same location within a month's period. If we hit those parameters an internal investigation case is created and the local HR supervisor is notified of a possible issue and to further investigate. <br/></span></li><li><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Identify a missing topic in your HR knowledge base. In this example we can set the parameters to see if multiple people are searching for the same keyword and getting 0 results. This indicates that we are either missing an article or need to add some keywords to guide employees to the right place of an existing article. The outcome could be a notification or task to the knowledge manager that 5 people have recently searched for "maternity leave" and found no results, or it could even create a draft KB article for you as a placeholder to add that content.</span></li></ol><p></p><p style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11.0pt;">While we could have gotten to these outcomes by using our reports and dashboards, having the proactive steps already in motion before needing to sift through the data can be a great way to stay ahead of the game and avoid a bad situation or dissatisfied employees.</p>