---
title: "Starting out with the CMDB"
date: 2017-07-01T01:54:24.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=b60d2ea5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96190d"
---
<p style="text-align: left;">Every Environment is different and every variation is going to be different depending on the use of ServiceNow and who your primary customer is. With my current role being with Service Desk and the possibility of other departments being added to the team I am trying to set this guide up in the best possible way to be a scalable solution to the entire ServiceNow platform. With the beginning we shall discuss 3 options of how you wish to approach your CMDB and the ServiceNow Platform. Remember that there are pros and cons to each approach. You have the discovery tool or application that discovers everything that could be a CI and puts it in the CMDB. This will be a fast start that ends up making you have to write queries in order to perform efficient reporting. There is, what I call, "The Broad Approach" this approach takes your CI's down to a basic level of Software, Hardware, and Cloud Services. There are other CI's but it is limited and broad. This will also force you to use queries to develop useful reporting. Then there is the approach we developed here at Western &amp; Southern Financial Group. This approach offers automated reporting options that allow you to perform analytics of data. The structure is as follows:</p><p align="center" style="text-align: center;"><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Configuration Item | Version (Category) | Sub-category</span></p><p style="text-align: left;">This structure was created in a manner that can be applied to anything that can be put into the CMDB. We will now discuss the classes of the CIs and then give a few examples in how each CI would look in that class.</p><p align="center" style="text-align: center;"><strong>SOFTWARE</strong></p><p align="center" style="text-align: center;">Microsoft Outlook | Outlook 2013 | Profile Error</p><p align="center" style="text-align: center;">Microsoft PowerPoint | Features | Video Coding</p><p align="center" style="text-align: center;">Outlook Plug-ins | SalesForce | Login Error</p><p align="center" style="text-align: center;"><strong>HARDWARE</strong></p><p align="center" style="text-align: center;">Laptop | Dell Latitude e7470 | Connectivity</p><p align="center" style="text-align: center;">Laptop | Dell Latitude e7470 | AC Adapter</p><p align="center" style="text-align: center;">Laptop | HP EliteBook 840 | Connectivity</p><p align="center" style="text-align: center;">Desk Phone | Cisco 9441 IP Phone | Configuration</p><p align="center" style="text-align: center;"><strong>CLOUD SERVICES</strong></p><p align="center" style="text-align: center;">(Function) | (Service) | (Description)</p><p align="center" style="text-align: center;"><strong>PROJECT MANAGEMENT</strong></p><p align="center" style="text-align: center;">Project Name (Manual Input) | Group Name | Individual</p><p style="text-align: left;">We locally decided that in software that plug-ins could be a sub-category but also could be a CI as well. We made the decision that for our environment that we do have some issues with plug-ins that it would be more valuable for data processing and reporting if we classified them as a CI. For Cloud Services it is formatting instead of an example because there are so many<br/>cloud systems out there that we cannot give a specific example to you that would work for your situation. </p><p></p><p style="text-align: left;">When making this policy it needs to be understood that there is always reasons on why exceptions would be made to the policy. When this occurs your process owner needs to be designated as the CMDB CI Owner/Manager. This person would need to be designated with the authority to break the rule at times in order to make situations fit. The key is this person needs to keep a<br/>meticulous record of every time the policy is broken so that way when it comes time to audit and perform data certification the owner/manager would be able to identify flaws in the policy and to fix those flaws. </p><p></p><p style="text-align: left;">Figuring out how data is populating in the CMDB. There are two ways data is populated into the CMDB. Automated input with Discovery, Snow, SolarWinds or other automated client and then there is manual input which can be done from time to time for CI's and inputs in the tables that cannot be inputted. Manual inputs in this model should be approved by the CMDB Owner/Manager.</p><p></p><p style="text-align: left;">Integration Tools are a vital asset to making ServiceNow operate to its fullest potential. The key to this integration is you have to monitor the inputs. If you don't the amount of data that is automatically put into the CMDB will begin to become unmanageable. This will make data certification a mess and an impossible task. There are multiple tools out there that can be used and that have integration tools. If you dig into these options you will see that you can pull from SharePoint, SolarWinds, Snow and many more options. </p><p style="text-align: left;"></p><p style="text-align: left;">We plan to make these blog posts as we move forward. It seems that a lot of this data tends to be unique to every environment but there are similarities in every environment. Please comment on if this post has helped you or if you see a way to improve this. </p>