---
title: "Predictive Intelligence comes to HI"
date: 2017-07-06T22:48:20.000Z
authors: ["brookehendricks"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=fc2de2e5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619dc"
---
<p><strong>         New Feature!</strong></p><p>                   Many of you may have heard that ServiceNow recently acquired DxContinuum, a company that specialized in machine learning!   We are working to incorporate this incredible technology into our platform for customers, and it will be available soon in an upcoming release.   The HI team has been given early access to this feature set, and we are excited to announce that we are implementing it on our Service Portal starting July 7th.</p><p>       <strong> What does it do?</strong></p><p>                   We are going to use the Predictive Intelligence capability to predict 2 things for our incoming incidents:   Incident Category and Assignment Group.   We use an internal incident category to help us classify what was the underlying reason for the incident.   And, we use the assignment group to help determine which specialist team within our Customer Support organization is best suited to address it. With these values being predicted, it will save us time both reading and identifying issues, and manually assigning them to teams to triage.   It also help us because we no longer will have to ask customers to categorize their incidents themselves.</p><p>         <strong>How does it all work?   </strong></p><p>                   The feature gives us the ability to 'train' a machine learning solutoin (in our case...we are training 2 different solutions.)   Basically - we took 6 months of historical incidents, and 'taught' the machine what category and assignment group those issues were ultimately assigned to.   Then, the next time we get a new incident in about a similar issue, the model should predict for us the correct category and assignment group automatically!   How cool is that!</p><p>       <strong>What will you see?   </strong></p><p>                   As a customer...you may notice when you are in the Incident Form of the Service Portal, that the 'category' field no longer appears.   This means that the machine was able to predict your category and assignment group for you.   In the case where the category field shows up after you enter in a description of your issue; it's because the prediction ran, but could not identify a category with a high enough confidence. </p><p>         Not all customers will experience the Predictive Intelligence right away.   We are starting with a random pilot group of users, and will be slowly increasing the number of customers who go through the prediction each week.   So...if you don't see it the first time you submit an incident on HI, just wait, you may be in the next group chosen.</p><p><strong>Questions?</strong></p><p>                   Wondering how this all works, or have questions about it?   Reply to this post.</p><p><strong>I want it...when can I get it?!</strong></p><p>         It's coming in a feature release of ServiceNow.   <span __jive_emoticon_name="happy" __jive_macro_name="emoticon" class="jive_emote jive_macro" data-renderedposition="473_324.59375_16_16" src="/8.0.4.21bdc7e/images/emoticons/happy.png"></span></p>