---
title: "How ITSM Analytics Will Help In Achieving Better Team Efficiency"
date: 2017-07-27T18:05:20.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=7c6daa29dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96191e"
---
<p style="margin-bottom: 15px; font-size: 15px; font-family: Lato, Arial, Tahoma, sans-serif; color: #626262; background-color: #fcfcfc;">With DevOps and Agile Strategies taking up faster pace and organizations moving more towards Cloud based infrastructure there are equal amount of strategic changes happening in ITSM approach as well. The ITSM modernization involves key strategies to improve team efficiency. Enterprise employees are becoming more dependent on IT systems all the time, creating an environment in which they expect more responsive, adaptable IT services. Becoming more efficient isn't easy, however, and organizations that want a more effective service desk are going to need to put some resources into optimizing IT service management systems. Typically, Team and Individual efficiency is measure based on the Mean time to resolve an issue. The Faster the resolution, better is the efficiency and performance of the resource pool. Analytic Tools that identifies the problem buried within tons of data, that can give you the root cause of the problem helping you take corrective actions and improve efficiency is the need of the hour for building efficiency in the team.</p><p style="margin-bottom: 15px; font-size: 15px; font-family: Lato, Arial, Tahoma, sans-serif; color: #626262; background-color: #fcfcfc;">Obviously, you want everyone on your IT service management team to have a certain level of skill supplemented by initial and continuing training. So what is expected out of these ITSM analytic tools.</p><p style="margin-bottom: 15px; font-size: 15px; font-family: Lato, Arial, Tahoma, sans-serif; color: #626262; background-color: #fcfcfc;"><span style="font-style: inherit; font-weight: bold; font-size: inherit; font-family: inherit;">Problem identification:</span> The tool should help the team learn quickly if they are meeting organizational standards of resolution rate. They get visibility on areas where they had been failing historically and how things are in the present.</p><p style="margin-bottom: 15px; font-size: 15px; font-family: Lato, Arial, Tahoma, sans-serif; color: #626262; background-color: #fcfcfc;"><span style="font-style: inherit; font-weight: bold; font-size: inherit; font-family: inherit;">Root cause analysis:</span> The tool helps the team learn what is the root cause for not being able to meet the goal set by organization? Is it that additional work load assignment is leading to missing the targets or if it is an individual capability or knowledge issue?</p><p style="margin-bottom: 15px; font-size: 15px; font-family: Lato, Arial, Tahoma, sans-serif; color: #626262; background-color: #fcfcfc;"><span style="font-style: inherit; font-weight: bold; font-size: inherit; font-family: inherit;">Improve with corrective and prescriptive action:</span> The analytics tool to provide detailed insight of which team or person is making the most negative impact in the organization. Moreover, the solution also provides inputs on how you can rectify the issues with better resource management, training or performance improvement programs.</p><p style="margin-bottom: 15px; font-size: 15px; font-family: Lato, Arial, Tahoma, sans-serif; color: #626262; background-color: #fcfcfc;">Using a fit-for-purpose <a title="uviktechnologies.com/itsm-analytics-solution-itwiz/" href="http://snuviktechnologies.com/itsm-analytics-solution-itwiz/" style="font-style: inherit; font-weight: inherit; font-size: inherit; font-family: inherit; color: #ba3334;">ITSM analytics solution</a> for enterprise service management can help to ensure that all employee issues and requests are dealt with and, where possible, to agreed service levels. No more losing requests in personal email accounts or delays through the inefficiency of individuals. iTwiz a cloud based ITSM analytics solution powered by <a title="uviktechnologies.com/" href="http://snuviktechnologies.com/" style="font-style: inherit; font-weight: inherit; font-size: inherit; font-family: inherit; color: #ba3334;">Snuvik</a>, provides insightful key performance indicators (KPIs), role-based dashboards, and flexible analysis that are required to enable optimum management of IT services. Although many ITSM tool offers their own evaluation options, iTwiz provides you a full overview or complete transparency of cross-system processes and correlating data from different source systems, which is a unique feature compared to others.</p><p style="margin-bottom: 15px; font-size: 15px; font-family: Lato, Arial, Tahoma, sans-serif; color: #626262; background-color: #fcfcfc;">To know more visit <a title="uviktechnologies.com/itsm-analytics-solution-itwiz/" href="http://snuviktechnologies.com/itsm-analytics-solution-itwiz/" style="font-style: inherit; font-weight: inherit; font-size: inherit; font-family: inherit; color: #ba3334;">http://snuviktechnologies.com/itsm-analytics-solution-itwiz/</a></p>