---
title: "Jakarta Ushers in a New ITBM Application SAM and Improvements to APM FM PPM"
date: 2017-07-19T19:02:49.000Z
authors: ["rickyb"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=5d3e2e6ddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619b4"
---
<p><span style="text-decoration: underline; font-size: 12pt;"><strong>IT Business Management with Jakarta</strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">IT Business Management in the Jakarta release leverages the significant gains made in Istanbul and takes its rightful place as a market leading suite of applications that strongly supports the CIO organization in running IT as a business.   ITBM in Jakarta strengthens the product's ability to provide visibility, strategic alignment, and increased velocity of service delivery. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><strong><em>Financial Management</em></strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">With IT Financial Management providing the foundation for the application suite IT can now communicate with clarity to business unit leaders the true cost and consumption rates of IT services. Easy to use cost modeling enables IT financial analysts to translate general ledger expenditures into detailed service pricing resulting in the ability to provide show back / charge back reporting with an interactive dialog that strengthens IT / BU relationships.   </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><strong><em>Application Portfolio Management</em></strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Jakarta release also provides advances in application portfolio management. Application rationalization is supported by visibility into detailed information about an enterprise's complete inventory of applications. Mapping applications to business process capabilities helps identify those areas that require additional investment in order to improve business unit processes. The overall application rationalization process enables IT to tightly align with enterprise strategy while optimizing its application spend. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><strong><em>Project Portfolio Management</em></strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Project Portfolio Management continues to advance in ways that enable customers to increase service delivery velocity with higher quality projects on time, on budget, and on value. Building on its strength for centralized demand and resource management Jakarta's PPM tackles the negative impact of unplanned work by providing a worker portal for properly recording time spent on all activities easily, in one place, and reporting time to the respective management for approval. Visibility for project and portfolio managers is also improved with a new project status portal. The Project Status Portal allows users to define the selection criteria that determines which projects will appear in the view, save views and even share them with others.   Metric tiles allow users to quickly identify the number of projects that are late, over budget or have high risk issues; then drill down for project details. A method of project scoring is also introduced displaying additional project metrics like ROI and IRR.   The feature calculates an overall value score for the project based on risk, cost and schedule. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;"><strong><em>Software Asset Management</em></strong></span></p><p><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Supporting ITBM's role of running IT as a business is the introduction of Software Asset Management (SAM). It is the new addition ServiceNow customers have been asking for.   SAM allows IT and finance leaders to take control of their software licenses by procuring, managing and optimizing the software needed to align to the business without surprises.   The integrated Performance Analytics dashboard allows customers to quickly view and remedy potential liabilities in the event of a software vendor audit. The Now Platform enables customers to perform critical tasks such as Discovery, Normalization and Reclamation on the industry's only Single System of Action.   IT, finance, and business management leaders will have a transparent view into their software license portfolio usage which will enable proactive growth forecasting, maintenance spend reduction, and strong negotiation positions for long term ELA contracts.</span></p>