---
title: "The Power of Partners Tiffany  Co Leverage RegoConsulting for PPM Success"
date: 2017-08-01T22:49:25.000Z
authors: ["rickyb"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=cc0ee62ddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619e3"
---
<p>Implementation partners play a key role in ensuring ServiceNow customer success. One such partner, RegoConsulting, helped Tiffany &amp; Co. get the most value out of ServiceNow's Project Portfolio Management (PPM) offering. Join us on August 9, 2017 for an informative webinar showcasing Tiffany's PPM implementation and hear how RegoConsulting played a part in Tiffany's transformation. </p><p></p><p>Below is the webinar description and a link for you to register…</p><p></p><p style="margin-bottom: .0001pt;"><strong>TIFFANY TRANSFORMS IT PROJECT AND PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (PPM)</strong></p><p>Tiffany &amp; Co. has long been synonymous with luxury and style. Having used ServiceNow's ITSM with great success, Tiffany &amp; Co. recognized there was opportunity to enhance their IT Project and Portfolio Management (PPM) processes and tools to better meet their business needs. The desire to have better visibility into the overall portfolio and resources was a driving factor in taking on the PPM effort. </p><p>Join Chris Butler, PMO of Tiffany, and product experts from Rego Consulting and ServiceNow to find out how implementing ServiceNow PPM enabled Tiffany to:</p><ul style="list-style-type: disc;"><li>Establish common IT processes for demand, project, program, and resource management</li><li>Improve reporting and efficiency to safeguard the success of its IT projects</li><li>Maximize adoption rates for its new PPM solution</li></ul><p>Register <a title="fo.servicenow.com/LP=8415" href="http://info.servicenow.com/LP=8415">here</a> for the August 9, 2017 Webinar</p>