---
title: "Register Now for the Upcoming HR Events in Chicago"
date: 2017-08-17T02:19:12.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=46bdaaa9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961965"
---
<p><span style="color: #444444;">ServiceNow is hosting an HR Summit on August 24 on Consumerizing the Employee Service Experience in Chicago.   For more information on the HR Summit, click </span><a title="p.connect.servicenow.com/e/es?s=1133&e=753032" href="http://app.connect.servicenow.com/e/es?s=1133&amp;e=753032">here</a><span style="color: #444444;">.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="color: #444444;">In addition to this event, we are offering a special VIP session for current HR customers only, beginning at 9:30am.</span></p><p><span style="color: #444444;">To register for this VIP session, please click <a title="w.cvent.com/d/35qb6f" href="http://www.cvent.com/d/35qb6f">here</a>. </span></p><p></p><p><span style="color: #444444; text-decoration: underline;">What is this VIP session?</span></p><p><span style="color: #444444;">This customer-only VIP session, hosted by the ServiceNow HR Customer Success team, is your opportunity to engage with your peers in HR, plus representatives from the ServiceNow HR business unit, to understand how others are using the HR product to transform and drive efficient HR service delivery.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="color: #444444; text-decoration: underline;">How is This VIP Session Different than the HR Summit?</span></p><p><span style="color: #444444;">As a current customer, you will be provided a sneak peek into the product strategy and roadmap for the Kingston release later this year. This session will also include a discussion driven by you. This is your opportunity to engage your peers on specific topics —you will be able to share best practices, deep dive into a topic you want more information on, and share what's working and what's not with the HR Customer Success team.   </span></p><p></p><p><span style="color: #444444;">Don't miss this special opportunity to gain an expanded understanding of what is possible with the HR product, get connected with others in your ServiceNow HR community, and leave with new ideas to maximize your investment.</span></p><p></p><p><strong style="color: #444444;">Agenda: </strong></p><ul><li>9:00am — 9:30am             Registration, Coffee and Networking</li><li>9:30am — 9:45am             Introductions and Agenda Overview</li><li>9:45am — 10:15am         Overview from the HR Customer Success Team and Product Roadmap</li><li>10:15am — 11:15am     Voice of the Customer discussion</li><li>11:15am — 11:30am     Wrap up and Networking</li><li>11:30am                                         Move to HR summit room for registration and lunch</li></ul><p></p><p><span style="color: #444444;">Please forward this invitation to anyone in your organization who is engaged with the ServiceNow HR application — all are welcome to attend and share their expertise and experience.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="color: black;">Note that there is a separate registration for these events. </span></p><p><span style="color: black;">For this VIP customer only summit, please </span>register <a title="w.cvent.com/d/35qb6f" href="http://www.cvent.com/d/35qb6f">here</a>.</p><p><span style="color: black;">To register for the HR summit, please click </span><a title="p.connect.servicenow.com/e/es?s=1133&e=753032" href="http://app.connect.servicenow.com/e/es?s=1133&amp;e=753032">here</a><span style="color: black;">.</span></p>