---
title: "More Than Diamonds Shine at Tiffany  Co"
date: 2017-08-14T21:56:00.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=829c6ee1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961975"
---
<p>At Knowledge 17 I heard a number of customers praising the work done for them by one of our partners, RegoConsulting.   That made me rather curious so I went over to the Rego booth and struck up a conversation. I learned a lot about them in a rather brief period of time, I was impressed. I also thought it would probably make a good topic for an IT Business Management (ITBM) webinar since their real strong suite is Project Portfolio Management (PPM). So, I suggested to their VP of marketing, Steve Winchester, that we should discuss doing a joint webinar. Steve agreed and said he'd bring in one of our joint customers.</p><p>As we started planning Steve said he would ask Tiffany &amp; Co. to join us on the webinar to discuss their PPM implementation. Well needless to say it worked like magic, the joint ServiceNow, RegoConsulting, Tiffany webinar was a stunning success. The ITBM BU has been doing a webinar a month and this webinar stood head and shoulders above all the others in terms of the number of registrants, the number of attendees, and the amount of interest based on the number of questions. All in all, the numbers were twice that of our previous high water mark. </p><p>If you didn't get a chance to attend the live webinar I strongly suggest you check out the recording. Chris Butler from Tiffany &amp; Co. does a great job describing the implementation project, RegoConsulting's role, and the benefits derived from ServiceNow's PPM applications. I've listed the webinar's promotional copy and a link to the recording below. It's well worth your time…</p><p></p><p style="background: white;"><strong style="color: black; font-size: 12.0pt; font-family: 'Arial',sans-serif;">Tiffany Transforms IT Project and Portfolio Management (PPM)</strong></p><p>Tiffany &amp; Co. has long been synonymous with luxury and style. Having used ServiceNow's ITSM with great success, Tiffany recognized that the company's existing IT project and portfolio management (PPM) solution was failing to meet its needs. The solution's low usage rates and poor data could no longer be tolerated.</p><p>Join Chris Butler, Director, IT PMO, and product experts from Rego Consulting and ServiceNow to find out how implementing ServiceNow PPM enabled Tiffany to:</p><p>Establish common IT processes for demand, project, program, and resource management</p><p><span style="color: black;">Improve reporting and efficiency to safeguard the success of its IT projects</span></p><p>Maximize adoption rates for its new PPM solution</p><p>See the recorded webinar <a title="ww.servicenow.com/lpwbr/tiffany-transforms-it-project-and-portfolio-management.html" href="https://www.servicenow.com/lpwbr/tiffany-transforms-it-project-and-portfolio-management.html">here</a>.</p>