---
title: "Event Management Case Study Leading Software Services Provider Lowers Ticket Volumes and Accelerates Incident Response"
date: 2017-10-02T23:06:14.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=e4ac6225dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619c6"
---
<p style="font-size: 20px; font-family: sans-serif;"><em><strong>CUSTOMER CASE STUDY</strong></em></p><p style="font-size: 20px; font-family: sans-serif;"></p><p style="font-size: 20px; font-family: sans-serif;">Combining ServiceNow ITSM and Event Management Creates Visibility and Agility</p><p style="font-size: 15px; font-family: sans-serif;"></p><p style="font-size: 15px; font-family: sans-serif;">This ServiceNow customer is a leading provider of software services to major corporations around the world. To deliver their mission-critical services, the company operates multiple state-of-the-art data centers. These data centers must provide high-service availability and performance, which is why the company is committed to ongoing modernization and automation of its IT management platforms.</p><p style="font-size: 15px; font-family: sans-serif;"></p><p style="font-size: 15px; font-family: sans-serif;"><strong>Drowning in noise</strong></p><p style="font-size: 15px; font-family: sans-serif;">Prior to employing ServiceNow solutions, the company was using a legacy event management tool in some of its data centers, while other data centers only had monitoring tools. According to the company, "With our existing tools, we couldn't see the end-to-end health of our IT environment, and we had no way to measure and improve our processes. Our level I support teams were dealing with a flood of uncorrelated and unprioritized events—which meant that critical alerts were buried in the noise."</p><p style="font-size: 15px; font-family: sans-serif;"></p><p style="font-size: 15px; font-family: sans-serif;"><strong>The combined power of ServiceNow ITSM and Event Management</strong></p><p style="font-size: 15px; font-family: sans-serif;">The company chose ServiceNow to manage the health of its IT environment because of the combined power of ServiceNow's IT service management and its event management. "ServiceNow Event Management was far ahead. We were impressed with its capabilities, as well as its flexibility. ServiceNow was also easy to integrate—that's a key area where other vendors failed," said an IT executive with the company. Since the company was already using ServiceNow for ITSM, it could also link ServiceNow Event Management with its existing ITSM processes. According to the company, "This was a top priority. Integrated event, change, and configuration data is absolutely critical when you're diagnosing service issues. And, we needed automated incident management processes to drive resolution and create visibility—at the time we were relying on ad hoc emails and instant messaging."</p><p style="font-size: 15px; font-family: sans-serif;"></p><p><strong>Reduced ticket volumes</strong></p><p>Since the company started using ServiceNow Event Management, it has seen extra ordinary results. An IT executive said, "Before, we would have page after page of alarms—now, we're dealing with less than a dozen incidents at any one time. That means we can identify critical issues more quickly. And, ServiceNow automatically categorizes and prioritizes incidents, which means that we're always working on the right thing. <strong>Overall, ServiceNow is turning 5,200 events a day into just 450 incidents—a reduction of 93%.</strong> And, we expect that to go down even further once we start to use ServiceNow's service mapping and analytics capabilities."</p><p></p><p><strong>Faster incident response</strong></p><p>Stressing the importance of automatically creating incidents from events, the executive continued, "It gives us visibility and ownership. By automatically creating incidents for anything that requires action, we can dramatically accelerate our response. For example, we've configured ServiceNow to automatically assign incidents to the right team, rather than having to wait for level I support to consult our runbook and manually reassign the incident. And, when level I support does need to consult the runbook, they can instantly pull up the relevant knowledge article directly from the incident, rather than having to   manually search through hundreds of pages of information." </p><p></p><p><strong>Visibility drives continuous improvement</strong></p><p>By maintaining a comprehensive record of incidents, ServiceNow also gives the company the data it needs to continuously improve its IT operations. According to the company, "Before, we had no visibility of the types of issues that were happening. Now we do. That means that we can prioritize future work—such as automatically remediating high-volume incidents. That will directly improve service quality, and it will save us time and money as well."</p><p></p><p><a title="ww.servicenow.com/content/dam/servicenow/documents/case-studies/cs-software-service-provider.pdf" href="https://www.servicenow.com/content/dam/servicenow/documents/case-studies/cs-software-service-provider.pdf">Click here to View a PDF version of the case study</a></p>