---
title: "ITIT is redefining how IT is managed from an endtoend perspective"
date: 2017-10-10T21:52:43.000Z
authors: ["rickyb"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=fb7de269dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961946"
---
<p><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">The IT4IT standard managed by the Opengroup, an open forum, helps to re-define how IT organizations are managed from an end-to-end perspective.   IT4IT doesn't replace any existing standards such as ITIL, COBIT, and Safe.   Instead, IT4IT provides key insights on how IT organizational silos can work together to deliver a more integrated IT value chain.   Being an open standard allows the standard to evolve, adapting to accommodate future IT practices.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">The IT4IT reference architecture was created by applying the latest thinking on lean, outcome-driven, service management oriented practices putting Services at the heart of the entire IT operating model.   Any IT organization has something to gain, and every IT vendor can better understand their products context to determine functional fit, data model, and integration requirements to facilitate all upstream and downstream dependencies.   Facilitating the seamless integration of IT solutions is one of the greatest values within the IT4IT standard. This value is addressed natively within the ServiceNow platform and ecosystem of highly integrated IT applications.</span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">Recently ServiceNow's very own Mark Bodman, Sr. Product Manager &amp; IT4IT adoption chair, recently broadcast a Webinar,<strong> How ServiceNow ITBM Supports IT Value Process Best Practices as Defined by IT4IT</strong>.   He sends his thanks you to all those that were able to attend. And, if you missed the live session, you can view a recording here: <a title="ww.servicenow.com/lpwbr/how-servicenow-itbm-supports-it-value-process-best-practices-as-defined-by-it4it.html" href="https://www.servicenow.com/lpwbr/how-servicenow-itbm-supports-it-value-process-best-practices-as-defined-by-it4it.html">https://www.servicenow.com/lpwbr/how-servicenow-itbm-supports-it-value-process-best-practices-as-defined-by-it4it.html</a></span></p><p></p><p><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">Turn-out for our event was phenomenal, with over 1000 registered and almost  ½ in attendance live. There were many questions at the end reflecting the interest and importance of the topic. Overall the webinar received very positive feedback.   Most of the attendees were looking into IT4IT for the first time determined by a polling question given at the outset.   With that intimate knowledge of the audience Mark was able to tailor his presentation and offer a primer to get up to speed on what the IT4IT standard is, offer advice on how to apply IT4IT, and illustrate how ServiceNow can assist in implementing IT4IT levraging the ServiceNow extensive platform and application ecosystem. </span></p>