---
title: "Special guest to attend next NYC LUG"
date: 2010-05-03T20:38:55.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=141e6e2ddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619e1"
---
<p>I just got off the phone with the Service-now.com New York City LUG steering committee. Plans are in the works to hold the next LUG meeting on May 27th at 9:00 am, location to be determined. <br /><br />Rumor has it Fred Luddy, Service-now.com founder and CEO, will be in town and will join meeting. With probably the biggest release in the history of Service-now.com coming in about a month, this will be a great opportunity to hear directly from Fred about the inspiration behind some of the new applications in the Spring 2010 release.<br /><br />We are currently looking for agenda topic suggestions and demo volunteers so please raise your hand if you are interested. Here are a few proposed topics:<br />- Customize vs. out of the box - a discussion around the pros and cons of each approach<br />- Demonstrating ROI - how to take metrics and show value to the business<br />- Spring 2010 release - which new app is most exciting to your organization and why?<br /><br />Please add your thoughts by commenting to this post. Let us know if you'd be interested in participating in any way.<br /><br />So pencil in the date and time. Once we have a few more details secured we will publish a formal agenda and set up event registration. Space may be limited for this meeting so keep an eye out for updates to this group blog.<br /><br />Thank you,<br />Rhett Glauser<br />Service-now.com</p>