---
title: "Documentation Wiki News Main Page Redesign"
date: 2010-06-19T03:10:53.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=1d5d6629dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96192f"
---
<p>Hi everyone,<br /><br />As always, we're looking to improve our documentation not only in terms of its content, but in terms of the Wiki itself and the structure of the documentation. Today we're rolling out a new Main Page for the Wiki.<br /><br />You can take a look here: http://wiki.service-now.com/index.php?title=Main_Page<br /><br />The basic philosophy of the restructuring is to be able to get more visibility for more parts of the documentation, not just the feature-based topics.<br /><br />So, what exactly changed?<br /><br />1) The Table of Contents no longer monopolizes all of the main page content. It's all still there, under "Topics," but there's now space for the other stuff we've added!<br /><br />2) The Bookshelf, which was a list of our PDF book guides, is now visible straight from the main page, rather than floating on its own. The page Help:Bookshelf is still there.<br /><br />3) There's now a new listing of "New Topics," so you can see what we've been adding to the Wiki lately. The idea with that (and with this blog) is to let you know when now documentation becomes available, so that if something you always wanted appears you'll know about it! <br /><br />4) The Release Notes and Guides section incorporates our new PDF Release Manuals, and links to the currently supported releases' notes.<br /><br />5) The left-hand navigator has been restructured: The guides (which are now represented on the main page) have been taken out, and we've put in links to our Most Popular Pages.<br /><br />This is the first step in a series of projects being undertaken to redesign our wiki. There will be more improvements on the road ahead, so stay tuned -- and as always, we'd love to hear your feedback.<br /><br />Yours,<br /><br />Guy Yedwab<br />Documentation</p>