---
title: "ABCs of ICT Workshop in Central Ohio at itSMF August th"
date: 2010-08-10T21:22:56.000Z
authors: ["terry.brown"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=86edaee9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96193a"
---
<p>As a reminder of the upcoming itSMF Central Ohio LIG meeting. Great IT Service Management training opportunity available at no cost.<br /><br />ABC's of ICT Workshop in Central Ohio!<br /><br />Facilitated by Doug Tedder, Board Member - itSMF USA<br />The itSMF Central Ohio LIG will offer the ABC's of ICT workshop on August 18, 2010 on the campus of The Ohio State University.<br /><br />Date(s)08/18/2010 01:00PM - 08/18/2010 05:00PM<br />Location:Ohio Union, The Ohio State University<br />1739 N. High St<br /><br />For more information or to register, please visit: http://co.itsmfusa.org/content/abc-central-ohio<br /><br /><br />What is it?<br /><br />ABC is like an iceberg, much of it hidden beneath the surface and yet capable of inflicting enormous damage....." to your IT organization, or more importantly, your business! ABC stands for the 'Attitude', 'Behavior' and 'Culture' of IT organizations. It is the ABC issues that are preventing many IT organizations from realizing the benefits of ITSM improvement projects. A recent Forrester report revealed 52% of such initiatives fail because of resistance. Frameworks alone, such as ITIL, ISO, CobiT are not enough. Unless the ABC issues are addressed there is a strong possibility that deploying such a framework will fail. This is an interactive session in which a number of small teams will be given a number of exercises to perform using the ABC of ICT worst practice card set. This card set contains 57 industry recognized worst practices. This session is intended to stimulate dialogue and discussion amongst participants, the aim is to identify the most common ABC worst practices and the consequences, impact and risk to your organization. Delegates will gain an insight into the hidden ABC issues within their organization and can also discuss experiences in dealing with these worst practices. The results and findings will be captured and shared with all itSMF members. At the end of the session we will share with you the shocking top 10 worst practices captured by more than 1000 delegates worldwide.<br /><br />How can I attend?<br /><br />Thanks to our sponsor, Maryville Technologies, this is offered to members and guests of the itSMF at no charge to you! Space is limited as the workshop is designed to be interactive so sign up now!<br /><br />About Doug Tedder<br /><br />Doug is a Senior Manager with Haverstick Consulting, where he is leading an ITSM / IT Governance practice. Doug combines the experiences of his over 25-year career as an IT professional with the ITIL framework in a very pragmatic way to help IT organizations achieve effectiveness and efficiency as well as enable continual improvement.<br /><br />Doug considers himself an "evangelist" for IT Service Management. He has presented at the itSMF USA Fusion conference in 2008 and 2009, as well as for the itSMF USA Ohio Valley Local Interest Group, the Indianapolis AFCOM Chapter, the Indiana HDI Local User Group, the Indianapolis Society for Information Management Chapter, and the Information Management Affiliates at the IU Kelley School of Business. He helped launch the first Student Local Interest Group for itSMF USA at Indiana University in October, 2008, and was on the International Design Team for the priSM Institute.<br /><br />Doug holds the ITIL V3 Expert certificate, the ISO / IEC 20000 Foundations Certificate, and is a certified ITIL V3 Foundation instructor. Doug also holds the Distinguished Professional Service Manager credential from the priSM Institute. Doug is a member of the Board of Directors for itSMF USA and a past president of the Ohio Valley Local Interest Group of itSMF USA.</p>