---
title: "North Texas User Group Meeting"
date: 2010-09-10T23:23:53.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=514deee5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961983"
---
<p>Mark your calendars the next North Texas User Group meeting will be Wednesday Sept 15th at Lennox International, Richardson, TX. I believe that we have put together an interesting program that should be informative and interesting.<br />* Jim Jacobs &amp; Karl Bietsch from Consulting Portal will share experiences working with a large global office products retailer in defining and deploying global change management processes. Learn how the use of a process design tool, iterative prototyping and Service-now.com Change Management yielded fast results and tangible benefits. Walk away with lessons learned as well as tips and techniques to help on the process implementation quest.<br />* Gordon Quinn from Lennox will be showing their Service-Now account and what has been implemented in the last year. They will also show what is in the development stages i.e. Business Service Catalog and the process of building the Business Services.<br />* Joel Blagg of Service-Now will be on hand to answer your "How-To" questions and update us on what's new with Service-Now.<br />There will be door prizes for those attending.<br />If anyone is interested in attending via WebEx please contact me via email at crh@lennoxintl.com.<br /><br />Please register by Monday Sept 13th so we can have your badges ready when you arrive.</p>