---
title: "Invitation to attend the itSMF MN Local Interest Group Meeting"
date: 2010-10-29T23:42:49.000Z
authors: ["sryan"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=15bcaa25dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96199e"
---
<p>When?<br />Tuesday November 30 --- ABCs of IT Workshop<br />8:00 am — 2:00 pm or 11:00 am — 5:00 pm <br /><br />Where?<br />Unisys<br />3199 Pilot Knob Road, Eagan MN<br /><br />IT's easy as A-B-C!<br /><br />At the last event of 2010, the itSMF Minnesota LIG offers an opportunity for you to learn about the ABCs of improving IT. This workshop format has been extremely well received at itSMF LIGs across the US and it's last tour date in 2010 is right here in Minnesota. This workshop promises to equip you to: <br />o Make change happen in your organization<br />o Inspire and stimulate desirable behavior<br />o Create shared goals focused on the customer<br />o Measure and demonstrate success<br />o Break down Attitude, Behavior and Cultural barriers<br /><br />The workshop will be followed by a fun scavenger hunt activity, where you'll find being an itSMF member can make IT easy as ABC! There will also be prize drawings at the conclusion of the scavenger hunt.<br /><br />As a thank you to our members and participants, the itSMF Minnesota LIG is sponsoring lunch. Grab a friend and join us for actionable takeaways, networking, and fun.<br /><br />Membership Fire Sale<br />Do you have a few dollars left in your budget that have to be spent by the end of the year? Join itSMF or renew your membership during the month of November or at the meeting and qualify for a drawing for ITIL books! <br /><br />itSMF USA is offering two options to heat up the deal:<br />o Gift Membership - Renew now and receive a 3 month trial membership to pass along to a friend<br />o Corporate Membership — 15 guaranteed voting members, unlimited non-voting members for $2,500<br />Membership renewals completed now take effect on your regular renewal date, extending your membership by a full year, but offer you the opportunity to take advantage of local and national membership bonuses that won't be available on your renewal date.<br /><br />Schedule<br />In order to accommodate the size of the Minnesota LIG, this workshop is being offered twice! The morning workshop will be followed by lunch and a scavenger hunt. The afternoon workshop starts with lunch and ends with the scavenger hunt. Space is limited to a maximum of 40 participants per workshop, so register today to lock in your preferred workshop time. <br /> <br />Special thanks to Maryville, the sponsor of this event! <br /><br />For more information and to register and hold your seat, visit http://mn.itsmfusa.org/ today!</p>