---
title: "Introduction to the new Higher Education Group"
date: 2012-03-01T03:53:10.000Z
authors: ["sherman.1206"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=6aac6625dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96191e"
---
<p>Greetings Fellow Higher Education Members! <br /><br />This post is an introduction to the reincarnated <a title="mmunity.service-now.com/higher-education-industry-special-interest-group" href="http://community.service-now.com/higher-education-industry-special-interest-group">Higher Education User Group of Servicenow</a> and additionally myself. Recently I was propositioned to take charge of this group due to my personal interest and also affiliation with The Ohio State University. Let me first introduce myself and follow with my future intentions for this group.<br /><br />My name is Chris Sherman and currently I am the SKMS Lead Developer for the Office of the Chief Information Officer at The Ohio State University. <!--break--> Prior to my current role, I developed software for the university while finishing my B.S. in Computer Science and Engineering. During my current stint at Ohio State I have been involved with the process design and implementation of all the core ITIL processes. I do not claim to know it all and this is where you come in as community members. We, The Higher Education Group, need each other to enable a thriving virtual community. <br /><br />It is unrealistic for our particular group to expect regular physical meetings due to geographic differences. (Note: Ohio State would be more than happy to accommodate if the group is interested in a meeting.) Thus going forward, the Higher Education Group will be used for group worthy notes specific to Higher Education. For discussions and questions, the <a title="mmunity.service-now.com/forum/special-interest-groups/higher-education" href="http://community.service-now.com/forum/special-interest-groups/higher-education">Higher Education Forum</a> is most appropriate. This will enable public visibility to discussions that may be helpful to others outside Higher Education. <br /><br />Going forward my intention is to open a forum discussion on a monthly (perhaps slightly optimistic) basis regarding topics specific to Higher Education and ITSM. The following topics are on my list in no particular order: <br /><br />- Who/what is your process council? - Are technical developers including, do you claim your processes are application agnostic? <br />- What is self-service to you? - Equal opportunity self service, students, faculty and staff)<br />- User management and multiple affiliations - Applicants, students, professors, oh my! <br />- Win of the year - lets discuss your biggest ITSM win of the year and how it was made possible<br /><br />Now that you know who I am and how I want to use this interest group. I want to find out who you are and what interests you have with this group. Hopefully with some introductions we can garner a better perspective to who may be most appropriate to help lead discussion topics and what interests the group communally has. <br /><br />Lastly, if you have interest in a particular topic of discussion please let us know.</p>