---
title: "Large Teams Part  of   Code Style Guide"
date: 2012-03-03T04:44:16.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=189d6a69dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96199e"
---
<p>In part 1 of this series I mentioned scripts, so let's stick with that again. When working on a team, I recommend every programmer come to an agreement on, and document, a coding style guide. The larger the team, the more likely it becomes for you to end up reading someone else's JavaScript. It may sound nit-picky, but when you find yourself in that situation, it can mean the difference of hours of frustration trying to sift though another person's code. Having a standard for all programmers makes it much easier to debug and update each other's work.<br /><!--break--><br />Here are just a few things you might consider in your style guide:<br /><br /><ul><li>Indentation: If some people are using two spaces, some using four, and some using full 8 space tab stops, you could find yourself having a tough time reading and maintaining each other's code. This is particularly true since the current Javascript Editor field doesn't support tabs on some browsers (it advances to the next field - standard browser behavior for tabs).</li><li>Get agreement on spaces around operators, function/method calls, etc.. Ex: do you prefer<br /><pre __default_attr="plain" __jive_macro_name="code" class="jive_text_macro jive_macro_code"><br /><br />for (var i = 0; i &lt; a.length; i++)<br /></pre><br />or<br /><pre __default_attr="plain" __jive_macro_name="code" class="jive_text_macro jive_macro_code"><br /><br />for (var i=0; i&lt;a.length; i++)<br /></pre>It's subtle, but important.</li><li>Consider where to place curly braces "{}". Do you want them at the end of lines or on the next line? How about whether to use them on single line if/for/while constructs? They're not required by the JavaScript interpreter, but you may want to set a standard.</li><li>Function/method/variable/class naming standards. Agree where you will be using underscores versus camel-case (e.x. myFunction()). If you aren't sure, take a look at some of the scripts provided to you from our developers.</li><li>Last, but not least, agree on documentation and commenting. As Mary Ellen in training likes to say, "This is a note to your future self." Be kind to yourself and write down what it is your piece of code is supposed to do. In my experience, writing a block of documentation first helps me think out what I am about to do. If I cannot document it, how can I implement it? Items to consider in your documentation include:<br /><ul><li>Is everyone using a standard header/format on their methods and functions?</li><li>What information are you including in the header (e.g. what args are passed in and what's returned?)</li><li>How about short comments (// like this)?</li><li>Should they go on the end of the line or above the line they describe?</li></ul><br /></li></ul><br />You get the idea. If you're going to fix it, you have to first feel comfortable reading it. A little planning now can save you a lot of headaches later.<br /><br />Consider the following examples; neither is particularly "right" or "wrong". If these two authors were on the same time, then you're going to have challenges supporting each other's code.<br /><pre __default_attr="plain" __jive_macro_name="code" class="jive_text_macro jive_macro_code"><br /><br />/*<br /> * _getAllAffectedCIs - create an array of CI objects so we don't have to hit the DB so much<br /> *<br /> * @param chg - GlideRecord of the change request<br /> * @return none<br /> * @uses this.CI - array of CIs<br /> *<br /> */<br />_getAllAffectedCIs : function (chg) {<br /><br />  var tc = new GlideRecord('task_ci');<br /><br />  tc.addQuery('task', chg.sys_id);<br />  tc.query();<br /><br />  while (tc.next()) {<br />    var ci = new GlideRecord('cmdb_ci');<br /><br />    if (ci.get(tc.ci_item)) {<br />      this.CI.push(ci);<br /><br />    } else {<br />      gs.log('Error: Reading CI: ' + tc.ci_item + ' on change ' + chg.number);<br />    }<br />  }<br />},<br /><br />/*<br /> * _printAllCIs - create a comma separated list of all CIs found<br /> *<br /> * @param - none<br /> * @return str - comma separate list of CI names<br /> * @uses - this.CI<br /> *<br /> */<br />_printAllCIs : function() {<br /><br />  var str     = '';<br />  var name = [];<br /><br />  for (i = 0; i &lt; this.CI.length; i ++) {<br />    name.push(this.CI.name);<br />  }<br />  str = name.join(',');<br /><br />  return str;<br />}<br /></pre><br /><br /><pre __default_attr="plain" __jive_macro_name="code" class="jive_text_macro jive_macro_code"><br /><br />_getAllAffectedCIs: function( chg )<br />{<br />    var tc = new GlideRecord ('task_ci');<br />    tc.addQuery ('task', chg.sys_id);<br />    tc.query ();<br />    while (tc.next () )<br />    {<br />        var ci = new GlideRecord('cmdb_ci');<br />        if (ci.get (tc.ci_item) ) {  this.CI.push (ci);  }<br />        else {  gs.log ('Error: Reading CI: ' + tc.ci_item + ' on change ' + chg. number); }<br />    }<br />},<br /><br />_printAllCIs : function()<br />{<br />    var str = '';<br />    var name = [];<br />    for( i=0; i&lt;this.CI.length; i ++ )<br />        name.push (this.CI.name);<br />    str = name.join(',');<br />    return str;<br />}<br /></pre><br /><br />Which do you find easier to read? Why? No write that down in a style guide - even if you are the entire team. It will give your successors something follow.</p>