---
title: "ServiceNow Knowledge  the only ITSM conference for selachophobes and hoarders"
date: 2012-03-27T12:28:51.000Z
authors: ["rglauser"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=d76caea1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96198b"
---
<p>So we have this little get together in New Orleans in May. It will be my fourth <a title="nowledge.service-now.com/k12/home.do" href="https://knowledge.service-now.com/k12/home.do">Knowledge conference</a> and I have my fingers crossed that the alumni will get a ServiceNow-branded pen or water bottle for their loyalty. Yes, I have a hoarding problem.<br /><br />Actually, Knowledge isn't so little anymore, and I've never heard of anybody going for the swag. People attend Knowledge because the quality of content is unmatched and this year the quantity is unmatched as well. It looks like it will be the largest gathering of ITSM folks in the history of get togethers. The energy at Knowledge has always been epic and it will be fun to see it double again.<br /><br />Thinking back, I only remember two complaints about Knowledge conferences. The first one about sharks attacking attendees was mostly rumor and really, what do you expect us to do about the ones with lasers on their heads? You can't defend against that, and we tried to warn you. There are really good reasons why you should read the fine print of the conference registration agreement. This was one of them.<br /><br /><embed width="420" height="315" src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/Bh7bYNAHXxw?rel=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen=""></embed><br /><br />The second complaint was legit. Some of the Knowledge long-timers (two-three year alumni) wanted more advanced technical content. You can only stomach so many ServiceNow implementation success stories before they begin to get nauseating. You know the ones…such and such global, name-brand enterprise IT organization implemented incident, problem, change, CMDB, knowledge, service catalog, IT cost, Runbook Automation, Discovery and Application Dependency Mapping, social IT, employee onboarding, six platform applications, Friday massages, pet sitting, mobile oil changes and a cafeteria all during the three-day Labor Day weekend.<br /><br />We heard you loud and clear. There's nothing worse than fancy-pants ServiceNow customers. You need and deserve more than fancy. In an tip of the hat to ServiceNow nerds, and to the nerds' bosses' bosses' boss, Knowledge12 will deliver content demanded by system administrators, developers, IT executives and newbs. So no matter who you are, from <a title=".wiktionary.org/wiki/selachophobia" href="http://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/selachophobia">selachophobes</a>, to CIOs, to pocket-protector wearing code jockeys, we've got you covered.<br /><br />Seriously, check out the <a title="nowledge.service-now.com/k12/learn_by_role.do" href="https://knowledge.service-now.com/k12/learn_by_role.do">Knowledge12 role page</a>. Click on one of the role types like "<a title="nowledge.service-now.com/k12/learn_sys_admin.do" href="https://knowledge.service-now.com/k12/learn_sys_admin.do">System Admins</a>" or "<a title="nowledge.service-now.com/k12/learn_dev.do" href="https://knowledge.service-now.com/k12/learn_dev.do">Developer</a>" and you'll see what I'm talking about. Computing power doesn't yet exist that allows us to count all of the labs we have lined up this year. That equals a lot, and we're not even trying to count the <a title="nowledge.service-now.com/k12/learn_agenda_pre-con.do" href="https://knowledge.service-now.com/k12/learn_agenda_pre-con.do">pre-conference training</a>.<br /><br />Or join us Wednesday, April 4 at 8 am Pacific on <a title="mmunity.service-now.com/blog/lawrenceeng/webinar-why-you-need-be-knowledge12-%E2%80%93-power-now" href="http://community.service-now.com/blog/lawrenceeng/webinar-why-you-need-be-knowledge12-%E2%80%93-power-now">this webinar</a> titled, "Why You Need To Be at Knowledge12." If the title is unclear, this webinar will answer the question, "Why do I need to be at Knowledge12?"<br /><br />Anyway, we listened. It's kind of a habit around here. Knowledge is bigger and better than ever. Whatever floats your shark-proof boat, we have content designed specifically for you. But register soon. We have a history of selling out, and only the first 2000 selachophobic hoarders to register get the ServiceNow-branded shark repellent**.<br /><br />** Not FDA, EPA or FEMA approved. Not proven to repel sharks with lasers on their heads. Seriously people, who do you think we are?</p>