---
title: "Easier emails"
date: 2012-04-14T03:19:52.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=dd3daae5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961905"
---
<p>Ever wondered why, to send a simple email notification, you need 1) a Business Rule to generate an event, 2) an Event Registry entry for said event, and 3) an Email Notification record to react to the event?<br /><br />Ever wanted to just do it all in one place?<br /><!--break--><br />The Business Rule / Registry / Notification model is powerful and flexible. It can do whatever you need. But for 90% of notifications, there should be an easier way.<br /><br />Good news: a better way is coming. I've been watching the folks developing it, and I think they're gonna make folks pretty happy.<br /><br />Check out this sample screenshot of the revised Notification form (attached below, since I don't know how to inline an image here):<br /><br />I highlighted a few noteworthy things:<br /> 1) "Send when" field. Lets you select either a specific event (so you can use the old model if you like), or when a record is inserted, updated or deleted (you get to pick which of those)<br /> 2) "Conditions" field now has additional operators: change, changes to, changes from<br /> 3) "Users/groups in fields" field replaces three fields with one: User field, Group field, List field. And it supports dotwalking.<br /><br />There's more under the hood, but I wanted to share some quick highlights. The goal of the folks doing this is to make setting up and troubleshooting emails easier. I think they're succeeding.</p>