---
title: "CBS and Consulting Portal present tomorrow at the Cornell Club NYC  please join us if you can"
date: 2012-04-19T01:56:51.000Z
authors: ["JMEYER"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=3bbd6ea9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619d3"
---
<p>Learn How to transform your IT Organization with Best in Class IT Service Management!<br />I'm pleased to invite you to an informative Lunch &amp; Learn session to find out more about the latest in IT Service Management including best practices, demonstrations and a chance to network with your fellow IT professionals. <br /><br />At the event you'll hear from ServiceNow customers, Tim Mayal and Alan Eiland of CBS on how they used ServiceNow Change Management to streamline their IT processes. CBS will also demonstrate how Consulting-Portal, a ServiceNow Partner, and CBS implemented their ServiceNow Change Management solution. <br /><br />Additionally, David Mainville, CEO &amp; Co-Founder of Consulting-Portalwill explore the results of the 7th Annual ITSM Industry Survey, and discuss the top 5 ITSM trends for 2012. All attendees will get a copy the survey results presentation.<br /><br />Space is limited and available on a first-come, first-served basis. Please register now to secure your spot for this special afternoon! As our thanks for attending, all attendees will receive a FREE ITIL V3 Virtual Instructor-Led Coursecourtesy of Consulting-Portal! <br /><br />Reserve your seat today and we'll see you there!<br /><br />Best Regards, <br />Danielle<br />EVENT DETAILS<br /><br />Date: April 19, 2012<br />Time: 12:00pm - 3:00pm<br /><br />Location: Cornell Club, 6 East 44th Street NYC <br /><br />Danielle Maceranka | ServiceNow | (o) 858.436.7768 | www.service-now.com<br />Transform IT</p>