---
title: "K PreCon training is nearly full  are you in"
date: 2012-04-25T01:47:15.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=289d6a69dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619ee"
---
<p>Wow - the PreConference training at K12 is nearly full, but there are some seats just waiting for you! Over 30% of attendees will come to advance their skills ahead of the conference to fully maximize the experience of those other days. <br/><br/><span>We're featuring a complete overhaul of our already popular Scripting class, &amp; brand new courses around Adv Admin &amp; Discovery. </span><a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="https://knowledge.service-now.com/k12/learn_agenda_pre-con.do" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">https://knowledge.service-now.com/k12/learn_agenda_pre-con.do</a><br/><br/>One of the frequent questions I get is "what do I take next, Adv Admin or Scripting?" - and my usual answer is 'it depends'! Scripting in ServiceNow gives you a holistic view of the SN platform, building the foundation of javascript skills on the client/server side, business rules, UI actions and more. You'll have the complete confidence in extending the platform and doing so with a keen eye on performance. We have a Scripting primer for you (on the agenda listing) and working to put together recommendations around using CodeAcademy to get some badges that cover the basics for you to be successful. <br/><br/>The Adv Admin class gives you a deep dive into some of the most common areas and applications our customers want to know more about. That includes workflows, reporting, Service Catalog, email, and more. Some scripting knowledge would be preferred, as we'll spend time in each of these looking under the hood. We've run two internal pilots over the last month or two getting this good and ready for you, and think you'll have a blast.<br/><br/>The entire team will be working hard during the pre-con training, along with Certified Trainers from our Authorized Training Partner program. We'd love to catch up with you to get feedback on our classes, desire for other training tools or resources, and let you know what's coming around post-K12 (can you say, Platform Developer and Runbook?!)<br/><br/>Thanks for all of your support - customer feedback is integrated into everything we do.<br/>jon</p>