---
title: "Increasing process performance using feedback loops"
date: 2012-05-18T17:17:57.000Z
authors: ["SimonMorris"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=9e4d6229dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961907"
---
<p>On Tuesday I presented Coaching Loops in ServiceNow at Knowledge12.<br /><br />It was an interesting experience and I was pleased with the feedback from the attendees. You can see the <a title="orify.com/Simo_Morris/coaching-loops-at-know12" href="http://storify.com/Simo_Morris/coaching-loops-at-know12">Twitter reaction on Storify here.</a><br /><br />Coaching Loops are:<br /><br /><b>A process for providing frequent feedback.</b><br /><br />We have recognised that people achieve high performance through a base level of ability and a culture of constantly identifying improvements. Lets take this and apply it to our Service Management individuals.<br /><br /><b>A method of improving performance using iterative feedback loops.</b><br /><br />Coaching loops is a method for inspecting your existing ITSM processes for opportunities to provide feedback. By repeating this on a regular basis we guide individuals towards high performance.<br /><br /><b>You can improve the outcome of your process… from within the process.</b><br /><br />This is the "killer feature" of our Coaching Loops product. Unlike all other methods of improving performance you now have the ability to positively influence the outcome of a process.<br /><br />In all other feedback methods - annual or monthly appraisals for example, you are only able to review the outcome of the process. <br /><br /><b>Coaching Loops offer a way of influencing the individual towards a successful outcome.</b><br /><br />I wanted to write up the concept of Coaching Loops into a more comprehensive document and so here is an unofficial whitepaper titled.<br /><br /><a title="mmunity.service-now.com/files/increasing_process_performance_using_feedback_loops_-_20120518_0.pdf" href="http://community.service-now.com/files/increasing_process_performance_using_feedback_loops_-_20120518_0.pdf">Coaching Loops in ServiceNow: An unofficial white-paper on increasing process performance using feedback loops.</a><br /><br />I hope you find it useful - I'd love feedback through this blog, Twitter (<a title="itter.com/simo_morris" href="http://twitter.com/simo_morris">@simo_morris</a>) or the <a title="ww.facebook.com/groups/back2itsm/" href="https://www.facebook.com/groups/back2itsm/">back2itsm Facebook group.</a></p>