---
title: "The LUG is Coming The LUG is Coming"
date: 2012-05-11T06:08:30.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=e50eaa2ddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96191a"
---
<p>THIS IS GOING TO BE **GREAT**!!<br /><br />We have settled on an agenda for our first meeting (see below), it is action packed with a TON of information to share with everyone. <br /><br />*** PLEASE BE SURE TO SIGN UP AT THE EVENT POSTING SO WE ORDER ENOUGH FOOD FOR EVERYONE ***<br /><br />http://community.service-now.com/inaugural-oklahoma-lug<br /><br />Please come early to meet everyone. <br /><br />When: Thur, May 24th<br />Time: 10a - 2p<br /><br />(1) Introductions---15 minutes (10:00 — 10:15a)<br />(2) Knowledge 12 Review/Berlin Overview--- (10:15 — 11a)<br />(3) Module Review---What Plug Ins are really available---What are you using---(11 — 11:30a)<br />(4) Bomgar Demo --- (11:30 — 12p)<br />(5) Lunch &amp; Networking --- (12:00 — 12:30p)<br />(5) Panel (OneOK, OU Medical Center(Norman), Samson and/or Williams)--- (12:30 — 1:30p)<br />(6) System Admin Break Out--- (1:30 — 2:00p)<br /><br />The inaugural meeting will be held in the downtown Tulsa at the Williams Center cafeteria conference rooms, Memphis and Miami. You do not need a security badge for this part of the building.<br /><br />Williams<br />One Williams Center<br />Tulsa, Oklahoma 74102<br /><br />The building is located between 1st and 2nd and Cincinnati and Main. The cafeteria is on the lowest level on the west side of the building. The easiest way to get there is to enter from the northwest side of the building(at 1st and Main). The cafeteria is on your right once you come down the steps at the entrance inside the building.<br /><br />Parking---I have attached a map of downtown with the parking lots. Many of them are monthly parking, but there is street parking and some open lots.<br /><br />If you have questions, you can contact me on my cell phone at 918-606-6476.<br /><br />We look forward to seeing you there and sharing our experiences.<br /><br />Kristy</p>