---
title: "Servicenow Processors and Platform Development"
date: 2012-05-24T19:52:12.000Z
authors: ["Christopher.Maloy"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=adbd6aa9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619e8"
---
<p>Have you ever wondered what happens with the system when you hit a URL similar to this in the browser?<br />https://demo.service-now.com/incident.do?CSV<br />This is a processor doing this work for you.<br /><br />I co-presented with David Loo during our Knowledge12 conference this year on Advanced Integrations. Towards the end of our lab he brought up the concept of processors in the SNC platform. I had no idea what they were or how to use them so I have started a quest to figure them out. I am still only beginning this quest, but I will be updating this blog as I find out more and more. I thought it would be good to pass on what I do know. David said this will be a key area to understand for platform developers and that more documentation will come.<br /><br />If you go to the System Definitions -&gt; Processors module you will see that the SNC system comes standard with a handful of prebuilt processors. You do have the ability to write more. I am going to share the example we demonstrated at Knowledge12 and hopefully things will make sense. <br /><br />Steps:<br />1. Go to the Processors module and click New<br />2. Fill in these fields with values indicated:<br /> - Name:Hello<br /> - Active:(checked)<br /> - Type:Script<br /> - Path:Hello<br />3. In the script section type the following:<br /><pre __default_attr="plain" __jive_macro_name="code" class="jive_text_macro jive_macro_code"><br /><br />var name = g_request.getParameter("name");<br />g_processor.writeOutput("text/plain", "Hello " + name);<br /></pre><br />4. Open a browser and in the URL address field type the following:<br />https://your_instance/Hello.do?name=world<br /><br />Results: <br />You will get back a plain text message in your browser of Hello World.<br /><br />So what is the big deal? Here is the big deal, you have full access to the functionality of the platform and the data through these processors. You could write a processor that streams the results of a database query, or runs a specific automation. When you do https://instance/table.do?WSDL you are calling the work of a processor. That is true for ?PDF, ?RSS, ?JSON, ?CSV.<br /><br />You could call your processor URL from your own code and FTP the output to another location. <br /><br />I hope to provide more to this blog the more I figure out. Happy coding. Cheers.</p>