---
title: "ServiceNow Education Services Team Introduces Process User Training Program"
date: 2012-06-15T09:24:18.000Z
authors: ["Andy Ho"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=857c22e1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619e5"
---
<p>The ServiceNow Education Services team recently introduced a new training offering for process users. I thought I would take a few minutes to provide a little Q&amp;A:<br/><br/><strong>Q: First of all, do you know what a process user is? And how are they different from an end user?</strong><br/>A: If you are experiencing issues with your laptop, you call someone in IT to help you. In this scenario, you are the end user and the person entering the details of your incident is the process user. They use ServiceNow and the Incident Management application to process your incident.<br/><br/><strong>Q: Is this training generic or can it be customized?</strong><br/>A: For our customers that purchase QuickStarts, we provide standard training for Incident, Problem, and Change that require minimal modifications. Alternatively, we can create custom training packages for our customers that want to tailor the training to their business processes and workflows.<br/><br/><strong>Q: How does this training get delivered?</strong><br/>A: We can deliver the content in a number of ways in order to fit a customer's needs: instructor-led, virtual classroom, and self-paced recordings. We can use any one of these methods as well as combine them if necessary. We can also implement a train-the-trainer program to help scale the training across multiple locations.<br/><br/><strong>Q: When does the training occur?</strong><br/>A: Generally, this training is delivered just prior to the implementation of the process going live.<br/><br/><strong>Q: What if I am an existing customer, is this training still relevant for me?</strong><br/>A: Absolutely. You can have us help develop custom training to your new and existing employees on your best practices. And if you are implementing new processes, this would be an ideal program to implement.<br/><br/><strong>Q: These questions didn't answer everything for me, who can I contact if I have more questions?</strong><br/><span>A: Contact your ServiceNow Professional Services representative. Alternatively, you can contact me for more details at </span><a title="k-email-small" class="jive-link-email-small" href="mailto:andy.ho@service-now.com">andy.ho@service-now.com</a></p>