---
title: "So youre at the kickoff meeting Do you have a training plan in place"
date: 2012-07-17T21:39:46.000Z
authors: ["Andy Ho"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=596dea29dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96190a"
---
<p>So, you are a new ServiceNow customer (congratulations!) and you are getting ready for the kickoff meeting with our Professional Services team (or a partner). A lot of items have been outlined within the SOW and you are ready to talk about next steps and taking care of your first set of requirements.<br/><br/><strong>QUESTION</strong>: Have you incorporated a training plan into your project?<br/><br/>If the project has been scoped properly, you should already have your system administrators registered to take our ServiceNow System Administrators course. This will prepare your admins to be able to configure and customize your instance based on your requirements.<br/><br/><strong>QUESTION</strong>: Have you considered preparing your user community for the go-live and rollout of ServiceNow?<br/><br/>We can deliver <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://www.servicenow.com/knowledge.do?sysparm_document_key=kb_knowledge,6ad6bf5a87662c40e4ab7b2d7d434d78" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">process/ITIL user training</a> in a number of formats to accommodate your user base. You have the option of going with face-to-face (live) training, virtual training, recorded training (webinar), or if you have a training staff already, we can utilize a "train-the-trainer" method to enable them to scale out to the rest of your users. <br/><br/>NOTE: You are not limited to any one of these delivery methods either, in fact, we have had customers use all 4 in the past with great success.<br/><br/>Are you curious what our content looks like?<br/>Are you interested in hearing a short clip from our recorded format?<br/>Drop me a line at <a title="k-email-small" class="jive-link-email-small" href="mailto:andy.ho@servicenow.com">andy.ho@servicenow.com</a></p>