---
title: "User Reference Field Qualifiers"
date: 2012-07-18T18:43:44.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=53bc6e25dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96196d"
---
<p>There are a few places in ServiceNow that some default Reference Qualifiers are often needed. For example, in the Incident Table, you can add a Reference Qualifier to restrict the Caller ID field to only show Active Callers. These are not setup OOB due to varying customer needs. <br /><br /><!--break--><br /><br /><br /><strong>What is a Reference Qualifier?</strong><br /><br /><i>"Reference qualifiers are used to restrict the data that is selectable for a reference field, using either the auto complete support or the magnifying glass lookup icon. The reference qualifier may either be a static encoded query string or JavaScript code that returns an encoded query string. Reference qualifiers are defined in the Reference qual field on the dictionary record for a reference field"</i><br /><br /><i>"There are several out-of-box examples of standard reference qualifiers. To view them, navigate to the System Definition &gt; Dictionary, and then filter on records where Reference qual is not empty. "</i><br /><br />http://wiki.servicenow.com/index.php?title=Reference_Qualifiers<br /><br /><strong>"Active User" Reference Qualifier Examples</strong><br /> <ol><li>Table: Incident [incident]<br />Column: caller_id<br />Reference Qualifier: active=true<br /><br /></li><li>Table: Task [task]<br />Column: assigned_to<br />Reference Qualifier: active=true^roles=itil<br /><br /></li><li>Table: Change Request [change_request]<br />Column: requested_by<br />Reference Qualifier: active=true<br /><br /></li><li>Table: Request [sc_request]<br />Column: requested_for<br />Reference Qualifier: active=true<br /><br /></li><li>Table: Variables<br />Column: Any Variable that is a Reference of the User Table<br />Reference Qualifier: active=true</li></ol><br />Mike</p>