---
title: "QuickStart for IPCC  Whats included in the training package"
date: 2012-08-07T03:08:06.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=e8bc6a25dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961911"
---
<p>In one of my previous posts, I discussed the introduction of our process user training program. Our professional services team has also recently released a QuickStart deployment package for customers. Included in this package is training content for process users. Here is a Q&amp;A to help customers understand exactly what we provide from a training standpoint:<br/><br/><strong>What is a QuickStart deployment?</strong><br/>In a QuickStart deployment, you will implement Incident, Problem, Change, and Configuration using ServiceNow's standardized, rapid implementation packages based on selected processes and applications using an iterative, modular approach. Click <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://www.servicenow.com/transformation-services.do" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">here</a> to learn more about them.<br/><br/><strong>What type of training do I get when I purchase a QuickStart?</strong> <br/>We will provide training on Incident, Problem, and Change that is targeted to your process users. Configuration concepts such as CIs and CMDB will be covered within these modules at appropriate places. <br/><br/><strong>How is the training delivered?</strong> <br/>We provide a single train-the-trainer session for up to 15 attendees/trainers. We deliver this training in a virtual classroom.<br/><br/><strong>What will I receive as part of the training package?</strong> <br/> • Training manual (PDF) including PPT with notes and hands-on labs<br/> • Slides with notes (PPT)<br/> • Train-the-Trainer session (1 session delivered via virtual classroom)<br/><br/><strong>What is covered during the train-the-trainer session?</strong> <br/>Topics include:<br/> • Review of training materials<br/> • Review of hands-on labs<br/> • Suggested demos<br/> • Common questions from users<br/> • Training delivery best practices<br/><br/><strong>What if I want to incorporate more content into the training?</strong> <br/><span>If you are implementing other applications such as Service Catalog, and would like to have our training team customize content for you, please contact me, Andy Ho at </span><a title="k-email-small" class="jive-link-email-small" href="mailto:andy.ho@servicenow.com">andy.ho@servicenow.com</a><span> for more details.</span><br/><br/><strong>What if I need more than 1 train-the-trainer session?</strong> <br/>We can scale our training to accommodate for any size customer. Please contact me if you need to plan training for more people.<br/><br/><strong>Can you deliver training in different formats?</strong> <br/>We can deliver process user training in a variety of formats such as live and web-based. Our current approach is to utilize the train-the-trainer format for QuickStarts to help customers scale efficiently and quickly. Please contact me if you are interested in other options. <br/><br/><strong>After our initial deployment is complete, what if I need additional training for other processes?</strong><br/>As mentioned previously, please feel free to contact me and/or your ServiceNow sales/professional services representative to discuss possible options.</p>