---
title: "Virtual classroom training  would you Like"
date: 2012-08-06T19:36:28.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=b5fd262ddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961929"
---
<p>Hi everyone - we've been running some of our classes in virtual classrooms for ServiceNow partners for awhile now, and I'm interested in the general support across the Community for online classes as part of our standard offering. <br/><br/>When I started just over a year and a half ago, Admin classes were a 30 page handout, offered in our US or UK HQ or a hotel. We are now running our 4 courses with dozens of classes a month around the globe with multiple locations in both NA and EMEA, using instructionally sound course materials, certified instructors, and professional training facilities. <br/><br/>We understand that not everyone can make those physical locations so I'm keen to see how many people would be interested in a virtual classroom offering, as part of our monthly schedule. <br/><br/>Pricing is the same as a classroom, and you would receive a 'Kindle-like' ebook (not pdf) so having dual monitors is going to be really helpful.<br/><br/>Obviously virtual classrooms are a different learning experience and the instructors who teach this are specifically certified to teach these classes. We use Adobe Connect, which has a light footprint on bandwidth and helps us provide interactivity. We leverage our Live Feed for collaboration and 'office hours' with the instructor. We think it's a pretty good experience and the partners score these classes just as high as our normal classroom surveys. (8.5+ on average)<br/><br/>I'm asking for your vote with either a 'Like' and/or a comment to help us understand which courses you would be most interested in taking online.<br/><br/>Thank you for your training business, <br/>jon</p>