---
title: "IT Services for  The DeathStar"
date: 2012-09-04T18:45:37.000Z
authors: ["seanpmcclean"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=ba9d6e69dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619d1"
---
<p>YEP. The <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/community/blogs/blog/2011/08/08/1373">GooseGuy</a> is at it again. This time with nothing less than a plan to connect IT Services to a galaxy far far away...</p><p></p><p>Now if you're interested in a broader overview of the big ITIL picture, you might check out <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=b06e6eaddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619c2">HERE</a> or <a title="" _jive_internal="true" href="/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=782d26e5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961932">HERE</a>, but I thought it   might be a great time to dust off a quick look at the IT Service...</p><p><br/>So, what's an IT Service in the first place? An Information Technology that <span style="text-decoration: underline;"><em><strong>Serves</strong></em></span> the business in some way - facilitating outcomes that the business is trying to achieve (typically on behalf of their customers..). What could this possibly have to do with the Deathstar? Or any other SciFi evil doer?<br/> <br/>What's the business of the Empire? The Cylons? Ming the Merciless? The Dalek? Or even (fill in the blank with your favorite SciFi bad guys here...)?<br/> <br/>Pick your bad-guy poison - Total domination!   Or perhaps just an opportunity to practice a maniacal laugh (Muwahaha...).   Here's the thing:   To get the job done, they had to have... Information Technology Services that somehow facilitated things a bit so they could get on with the job of of bringing the Rebels to their knees...   Here's a few examples:<br/> <br/>- <strong>Air Mix</strong> —Some sort of IT service is making sure there's oxygen on that space ship or it won't be just Mr Vader that will be breathing funny. Just how scary is that space villain going to sound if there's too much Helium in the air-mix?<br/>- <strong>Death Ray Targeting System</strong> — You think they just point that giant Death Ray with a hand crank? Wouldn't it be just a tad embarrassing if the beam missed Alderaan?<br/>- <strong>Tractor Beam Targeting</strong> — "no, no! The space ship! The space ship! Not Han Solo's belt buckle…" (er, that could be awkward)<br/>- <strong>Transporter Beam</strong> — If there weren't some Information Technology behind the scenes, Kirk could wind up with Spock's ears (or worse — but that's a completely different blog post…)<br/>- <strong>Arena Surveillance</strong> — Someone has to manage and watch and switch cameras for all of that Katniss kissing going on…<br/> <br/>That's right, behind every good Science Fi Villain and Hero(ine), I believe there is an IT Service (or many IT services). Do I need to drag out HAL to prove my point? <br/> <br/>So let's look at some of these IT services in context. No matter how far fetched, how imaginary, we still have to do some of the same things to them / for them, and they still follow a lifecycle:<br/> <br/>So, maybe a moment to review IT services as part of the ITIL V3 lifecycle: <br/>- We <strong>Strategize</strong> about what IT Services would support our business<br/>- We <strong>Design</strong> these IT Services in a way that we can explain them to customers (through a catalog) and measure success (through SLA) in terms of things like Availability, Continuity, Capacity, etc.<br/>- We <strong>Transition</strong> these IT services into (and out of) Operation, training people, managing the release and deployment of them, managing changes, etc.<br/>- We Manage the <strong>Operations</strong> of these IT services through processes we're most familiar with (incident, problem, etc.)<br/>- We (hopefully) <strong>Continually Improve</strong> these IT services<br/> <br/>Think I can't apply this to our DeathStar?<br/> <br/>At the Strategic level the IT service should make sense as part of IT's <strong>Portfolio</strong>. Do you think Darth and da boys really care about IT dollars spent to manage how much trash is compacted and when? On the other hand, maybe a few more IT dollars spent on those schematics and plans to prevent er, leaking…<br/> <br/>Speaking of which… I probably need to <strong>Design</strong> this service. Create a summary of what this service is — beyond the portfolio description of strategic costs and benefits, a very simple "<strong>catalog</strong>-y" terms so simple, even a Storm Trooper would understand it (remember, these guys were so dumb you could wave and say "…we were never here…") and order it... <br/> <br/>Maybe while we're at it we should put design and plan for some of the <strong>Capacity</strong> and <strong>Availability</strong> needs for this service — how much and when does it run? What if it does break off hours — ahh, the beginnings of Service Level agreement form here…<br/> <br/><strong>Transitioning</strong> an IT Service? Going to bring Air Mixture Live so that people can finally take their space helmets off and take a breath? We'd better make sure that we have this documented first — We want all of the pieces and parts mapped out — so that "just in case" it breaks, we're not all gasping general whatshisname. Oh yeah, and training, lots and lots of training (storm troopers you know…)<br/> <br/>And so on. See how easy it is? You to can be a <span style="text-decoration: line-through;">Jedi- </span> IT Service Master...<br/> <br/>By now you should see that IT services make up a key component of we do. And, IT Services are important, regardless of what you do. If it's a Software as a Service, it's probably "up in the cloud" and not on a Configuration Item (CI) you can easily point to. Likewise, if everyone is using their own devices, we (IT) have less knowledge (and control). Therefore it's even more critical that you know (and define) as much as you can about the service itself. Which makes it a good thing ServiceNow includes IT Services and Business Services in their CMDB - and an even better thing that all of these IT Services sit on the ServiceNow Platform, alongside other Services (such as HR and Finance) that are supported by Information Technologies.</p><p></p><p>And that about sums it up folks. Be sure to tune in next time when I try to apply Continual Service Improvement to something icky… That chattering you hear in the background are the teeth of my colleagues and friends that I ask for editing help — they're afraid of what crazy combination of run-on sentences and horrible grammar I might come up w. next…<br/>Speaking of which, I want to acknowledge help, ideas, and suggestions from Lawrence Eng, Andy Ho, and Michelle Corona! I can't thank them enough for reviewing what I write and encouraging me to write it!</p>