---
title: "Webinar How to Implement Measurements to drive value"
date: 2012-10-09T02:43:28.000Z
authors: ["elfo"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=ca0eaa2ddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619fc"
---
<p>(an itSMF USA webinar you might be interested in)<br /><br />10/10/12 Event at 12 PM<br /> <br />We would like to invite you to attend a webinar presented by David Smith, President of Micromation, Inc. on "How to Implement Measurements to drive value."<br /> <br />The information provided in the session will help you to improve the "Business of IT" by using a measurement framework and metrics that matter most. Metrics are important to management. What's not measured cannot be managed. But what should be measured, why and how?<br /> <br />Metrics validate IT strategy; provide direction with targets; justify changes with a means to gauge value-realized; signal when to intervene with corrective actions. Learn the secrets of how measurement frameworks works; take away a roadmap with actionable steps<br /> <br />To attend the webinar please click the link below:<br />http://www.brighttalk.com/webcast/845/56155<br /> <br />NOTE: You must signup for a Brighttalk account (if you do not already have one) in order to participate in the webinar.<br /> <br />Presenter BIO:<br />David Smith is the President of Micromationinc.com, an IT Consultancy that specializes in IT service optimization. David is also a certified TCO Expert, ITSM Expert and ISO 20000 Consultant. He has 30 + years experience in managing and improving the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of IT service delivery for commercial IT vendors as well as the internal IT organizations of well-known private and public sector companies.<br /> <br />David's IT consulting kit-bag includes tools, methods and lessons-learned for: measurement frameworks, metrics, optimization, governance, portfolios, scorecarding, benchmarking, baselining, service &amp; process improvement, KPI designer SW, ROI, TCO, ABC, ABM, technology refresh, support modelling, service marketing, cataloguing and pricing using industry best practices like ITIL, CobiT, CMMI etc. David is the author of "Implementing Metrics for IT Service Management" ISBN: 9789087531140 and contributing co-author of "IT Service Management - Global Best Practices" ISBN: 9789087531003<br /> <br />Additional information about the event is also available on our website: http://www.itsmfusa.org</p>