---
title: "Fourth Quarter Service Now User Group  Call for topics  presenters"
date: 2012-10-08T22:48:46.000Z
authors: ["Rodney"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=e91eee2ddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619ad"
---
<p>Our Great Service Now Customers,<br /><br />It is that time again. Time to start planning our next ServiceNow User Group Meeting.<br /><br />Last time we were together we talked about having more and more of the customers presenting and soliciting your feedback on topics that will be presented.<br /><br />Please respond to this post if you would like to present at the next User Group Meeting. We are all interested to hear what you have to say and what you have done with the ServiceNow Platform. It could be a 5-minute show and tell or a full hour deep dive on a new application/integration/process you have developed. As long as we hear from you, it is all good!<br /><br />--&gt; Please respond to this post with your presentation idea and contact information.<br /><br />Additionally, what topics would you like to hear about from our amazing Solution Consultants? It is a big platform and their is lots to cover. Let us know what you are interested in so that we can have another valuable session in December.<br /><br />--&gt; Please respond to this post with your topic suggestion.<br /><br />Speaking of December, our four city SN User Group TOLA-palooza will have the following tour stops.<br /><br />Houston: 12/4<br />Austin: 12/5 <br />Dallas: 12/6<br />Tulsa: 12/7<br /><br />More information on the exact locations will be coming out shortly, but PLEASE SAVE THE DATE.<br /><br />Have a great week ahead and we look forward to your responses and input!<br /><br />ServiceNow TOLA-palooza Road Crew</p>