---
title: "ServiceNow Innovator of the Year Morrison  Forrester Gets Even More Recognition"
date: 2012-10-16T01:19:11.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=337ce2e1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619d3"
---
<p><b><a title="w.law.com/jsp/lawtechnologynews/PubArticleLTN.jsp?id=1202572115996&slreturn=20120910165436" href="http://www.law.com/jsp/lawtechnologynews/PubArticleLTN.jsp?id=1202572115996&amp;slreturn=20120910165436">ServiceNow Innovator of the Year Morrison &amp; Forrester Gets Even More Recognition</a></b><br /><br />It's been a big year for the Morrison &amp; Forrester crew — first recognition by ServiceNow as an Innovator of the Year and now through ILTA (International Legal Technology Association), who recognized Morrison &amp; Forrester as the most innovative law firm.<br /><br />After a nomination process open to ILTA's 1,400 member organizations, a team of ILTA member judges chose MoFo as tops for innovation in the organization category. The firm won for successfully using ServiceNow to smooth upgrades from Microsoft Windows XP and Office 2003 to Windows 7 and Office 2010 in the past year, said James McKenna, MoFo's director of infrastructure and administrative systems. <br /><br />"Leveraging ServiceNow's workflow to execute very precise [Windows] Powershell scripts, we were very successful in making different hardware systems across the firm do very precise things in very specific ways," McKenna said. "The resulting automation allowed us to reliably migrate many busy people in tight windows of time in a seamless fashion."<br /><br />In short, MoFo was able to speed up an upgrade process that involved 2,500 users in 16 offices across the United States, Asia, and Europe, saving almost 10,000 working hours on the project, and slashing the expected cost by $750,000, according to the firm.<br /><br />And James even gave our own Joe Romano a big shout out in the article as being instrumental for getting ServiceNow 'in the door' at the firm.<br /><br />For more information on Mofo and this win, check out the press <a title="w.mofo.com/resources/press-releases/" href="http://www.mofo.com/resources/press-releases/">release.</a> <br /><br />For more information on why we selected the firm as our own Innovator of the Year, check out this as a refresher!</p>