---
title: "ServiceNow Implementation Methodology  StartNow"
date: 2012-10-13T14:32:42.000Z
authors: ["dale.brown"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=ef7ce2e1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619c8"
---
<p>Want to learn more about the new implementation methodology from ServiceNow Professional Services?<br /><br />Over the coming days / weeks / months, I'd like to share my thoughts and views around this methodology and how this came about in the first place. I'd also like to explain how this methodology is made up, what components of ServiceNow support the methodology and our future plans for it. I'd also like to get feedback from the field to see if we're on the right tracks!<br /><br />First of all, what does it stand for, where did 'Start' in StartNow come from? The name was the basis for the whole ground up re-write…it stands for <font color='#FF0000'>ST</font>rategic <font color='#FF0000'>A</font>lignment and <font color='#FF0000'>R</font>apid <font color='#FF0000'>T</font>ransformation. This really drove our thinking and set the tone for the development.<br /><br />I'd like to explain really early on here that StartNow is a combination of traditional 'waterfall' approach and use of Agile Scrum with the inclusion of a central area to store project risk, so 3 main components are core to the methodology:<br /><br />1.<strong>Project</strong> - Waterfall<br />2.<strong>Scrum</strong> — Agile<br />3.<strong>Risk</strong><br /><br />Why mix up Project management and Agile scrum? Basically we're utilizing the good bits from both methodologies! It's not one or the other; it's a combination of both! Maybe we should call it a 'Wagile' methodology!!! :o)<br /><br /><strong>Project Management</strong> — This is great for planning out your stall, its great at defining scope, deciding on the optimum strategy for delivery, creating teams as it's a methodical task oriented approach. Is still about delivering optimum value based on a predefined framework of time, cost and output and managing changes within this structure. The downside to this and I use a boat analogy; think of a steam-liner, once you start this on it's course, it's off and running but you really struggle to change it's course.<br /><br /><strong>Agile scrum</strong> — This is at the end of the day a product development framework, its useful for delivering work in an iterative and incremental way. Requirements and solutions evolve through collaboration and each package of work is time-boxed (sprints). With this approach we can keep on-track with the customer requirements, drop in new requirements or remove anything that's deemed no longer required…we're now driving a speed-boat and can spin it around in a second!<br /><br />Next in this series I'll explain in more detail what this means from a ServiceNow deployment perspective</p>