---
title: " Calgary enhancements Id love to see in Calgary"
date: 2012-10-25T00:34:40.000Z
authors: ["mattberan"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=b45e2aaddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961978"
---
<p>For those of you not on twitter, I've been tweeting out enhancements I'd like to see in Calgary. Here's the conclusive list. There are a few on here I didn't tweet, and a few that will still be tweeted through next week [spoilers]. Some of these are also just organizational suggestions like improving Hi, or sharing internal processes with customers.<br /><br />The reason I made this list and share it, is that I love ServiceNow, I think it's a great platform. I really don't want to see the same mistakes other ITSM vendors make, and I want to help ServiceNow to keep improving.<br /><br />1.Resizable columns<br />2.Global Tagging<br />3.Business Service Map extendable to all tables<br />4.List header stays at the top of the page regardless of scroll<br />5.Copy/Paste into WYSIWYG fields with in-line images<br />6.Copy/Paste from ALL tables and lists, to ALL tables and lists<br />7.Printable/Exportable Business Service Map. <br />8.Printable or exportable table schema map<br />9.Push-button copy of fields from extended tables to parents. <br />10.Global System Property for Google Analytics. <br />11.Standardized reporting for shared SNC customer reporting and benchmarks<br />12.Create and track HI tickets within and without your internal instance. <br />13.Share problems and kb articles via a standard platform and community. <br />14.An updated ServiceRequest application. <br />15.Show multiple reports on one render easier. <br />16.Export to Microsoft Project<br />17.Copy/Paste to/from Slushbucket. <br />18.Platform as a Service at a platform price<br />19.Customer support that is unparalleled. <br />20.Native iOS application. <br />21.Native android app. <br />22.Native OSX app<br />23.Native windows application. <br />24.Mobile admin capabilities. <br />25.Better UI for all users. <br />26.More logical CMS system - more like wordpress. <br />27.Updated Altiris plugin integration. <br />28.Updated HP BSM integration. <br />29.Project ideation application - users can vote on. projects/enhancements<br />30.Publish stats on how many customers use which plugins<br />31.Use your own professional services. <br />32.Publish your processes. <br />33.Publish your architecture. <br />34.Make your processes, architecture and operations details available in a knowledge base for customers and partners. <br />35.Workflow editor with lines that are placable<br />36.A local instance for customers and partners. <br />37.BarCode/QR scanner integration with hardware partner and/or mobile app <br />38.Cache-able data for offline use (beyond reporting, ODBC, export). <br />39.OOB export sets. <br />40.XACML integration. <br />41.Knowledge Upload tools for common KB import types (word, pdf, xml, html). <br />42.An upload area where buckets of Docs or HTML can live segregated from the instance data. <br />43.Support for indexing .docx, .xlsx…. etc. <br />44.Workflow support for Service Catalog Items - requesting new ones, managing current, lifecycle. <br />45.Moving data from environment to environment in a special update set (not data source). <br />46.Support for importing .docx, .xlsx…. etc. <br />47.Record references (PermaLinks) that never change (non URL, based on SYS_ID) <br />48.Service Catalog items OOB that manage the assignment groups structure and details automatically <br />49.Service Catalog items OOB that manage the Service Catalog items #50TweetsOfCagary<br />50.Drag-and-Drop zones on edge for managing queues, reassignment, escalation and comparison <br />51.Aggregation within reporting needs to have more fields - dot-walking to responses from task survey <br />52.Better icons and images throughout, and a better way of selecting/sorting/searching them.</p>