---
title: "Process User Training Program Update"
date: 2012-10-22T10:18:19.000Z
authors: ["Andy Ho"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=083eaa6ddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961991"
---
<p>It's been about 4 months since my first <a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="http://community.servicenow.com/blog/andyho/servicenow-education-services-team-introduces-process-user-training-program" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">post</a> regarding our Process User Training Program. I'm amazed that the post is close to reaching the 1,000 mark for number of reads.</p><p><br/>Since that post, I've been giving a lot of demos of what we can offer in this program and have been using a <strong>car analogy</strong> quite frequently. Let me try to explain:</p><p><br/><br/>When you go to make a purchase, it's usually better when you can see what you're buying. Like when you go clothes shopping or when you buy a car. This is why I always use a virtual room (ie WebEx) to SHOW a customer or prospect what they are getting - like the PPT slides with notes included, the hands-on labs, the self-paced recordings, etc.<br/><br/>If a customer is in the process of preparing to GoLive, then their SysAdmins (<i>aka the engineers</i>) are customizing and configuring ServiceNow (<i>aka the car</i>). They are fixing things under the hood (ie business rules, ACLs, scripts) to make the car run the way they want. Once they are finished, then it's their process users (<i>aka the drivers</i>) that will be taking the car out for a spin.<br/><br/>It's important that these drivers know how to operate the car properly. If not, then some damage could be done or at a minimum, the car might not get the best gas mileage possible due to inefficient use. Even if a company knows exactly how they want their people to use their car, it's quite possible that they might only be leveraging a portion of what the car can do; for example, only driving it to the grocery store and back. If you take advantage of our custom training program, you can leverage years of experience from the manufacturer to really get the most out of your car - like driving it on the highway at high speeds - err, I mean, at the speed limit.<br/><br/>If you have any questions about how this program works, don't hesitate to contact me or your ServiceNow sales/services rep for more information. For the cost of what it takes to train 5 people on-site in SysAdmin, you could have your very own <strong>tailored training material</strong> that uses your instance for screen shots and your processes for the step-by-step hands-on labs.<br/><br/>Andy Ho: <a title="k-email-small" class="jive-link-email-small" href="mailto:andy.ho@servicenow.com">andy.ho@servicenow.com</a></p>