---
title: "TweetsOfOctober  The Full Story"
date: 2012-11-07T23:30:09.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=72fc66a5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96193d"
---
<p>In 2012 we have already seen #50TweetsOfBerlin from <a title="witter.com/j_roberts" href="https://twitter.com/j_roberts">@j_roberts</a> and #50TweetOfCalgary from <a title="witter.com/mattberan" href="https://twitter.com/mattberan">@mattberan</a> both of which inspired me to share some of the cool things we have used the ServiceNow platform for since we went live two years ago, kind of a celebratory series.<br /><br /><b>So, if you missed my #23TweetsOfOctober series on twitter here's the full story...</b><!--break--><br />(23 is one for each work day in October.) <br /><br /><ol><li><b>01/10</b> - Using wiki tags (instead of HTML) we published 1,000+ articles in Knowledge Management helping staff to help themselves over 60,000 times<br /></li><li><b>02/10</b> - Incident Management has cool functionality like lead incident and auto-routing based on CI, Customers primary support team and Office Location.<br /></li><li><b>03/10</b> - A live Service Disruption Board fed by Outage Management gives staff an open and transparent view of known issues, scheduled maintenance and outages<br /></li><li><b>04/10</b> - New Policy Management app that automagically sends and reminds staff of required acceptances. Currently stands at 19,000+ responses.<br /></li><li><b>04/10</b> - LDAP AD integration mapping 25 fields for every user, this gives improved reporting and billing capabilities.<br /></li><li><b>08/10</b> - Skills Management allows staff to maintain their levels against 300 different technical, language and soft skills.<br /></li><li><b>09/10</b> - A new Work Request Management application replaces REQ tickets with WRQ tickets to reduce complexity and adds loads of automation.<br /></li><li><b>10/10</b> - A new Capex Management approval process containing 50+ workflow activities and approvals are based on cost and group authority framework for approvals.<br /></li><li><b>11/10</b> - 65% of 9,500 staff across 35 countries use Self Service to log, track and approve tickets everyday<br /></li><li><b>12/10</b> - New Property Management app helps Group Finance manage leases, sub leases and agreements and financial information for the 120+ premises around the globe.<br /></li><li><b>15/10</b> - Verified CIs force Configuration Management to meet minimum standards which includes improved data quality, supplier information, IT groups, approval groups and user relationships.<br /></li><li><b>16/10</b> - A set of 10 ITSM Minimum Standards govern security, project and portfolio, enterprise architecture and help drive adoption and usage of service delivery methodologies and processes.<br /></li><li><b>17/10</b> - New standard HTML email templates used for all notifications make messages clear and easy to understand for staff.<br /></li><li><b>18/10</b> - Created standard SOAP Web Services to enable any authorised external systems to automagically create, update &amp; resolve both Incident and Work Request tickets.<br /></li><li><b>19/10</b> - We measure and monitor traffic and usage trends using Google analytics. With 500,000+ page views a month this makes ITSM fundamental to business success.<br /></li><li><b>22/10</b> - Facilities Management is used to auto-route lighting and HVAC issues and stationery requests based on office location and supporting team.<br /></li><li><b>23/10</b> - IT Provisioning provides controlled Access Management for starters and leavers. This has helped bridge the gap between HR and IT.<br /></li><li><b>24/10</b> - IT Provisioning automagically creates home folder, maps drive and adds email DLs all based on verified location records.<br /></li><li><b>25/10</b> - IT Provisioning adds user relationships to licenses and CIs based on approved requests and the notifies and revokes them when staff leave.<br /></li><li><b>26/10</b> - Change Management has 3 layer approvals (Business, Technical and Change Management) and uses templates for standard pre-approved changes.<br /></li><li><b>29/10</b> - Vendor Scorecard are used as a mechanism to aid continual improvement of relationships through proactive Management.<br /></li><li><b>30/10</b> - Project Management tracks and reports on 300 projects. It includes both Project and CIO scorecards and an all new time card application. Has been discussed that our configuration should be the OTB PPM application.<br /></li><li><b>31/10</b> - Contract Management for all IT services. Includes verified vendor information, past and present spend, internal account owners, signed agreements and master service agreements (MSA) and auto renewal reminders.<br /><br /></li></ol><br />I hope you enjoyed the series as much as I enjoyed thinking about the successes we have achieved over the last two years. <br />Plus I hope it inspires you to look at things differently and find new ways to address old issues.<br /><br />Until next time...<br /><br /><b>Paul Hardy</b><br />Informa Plc.<br /><a title="w.twitter.com/paulhardyuk" href="http://www.twitter.com/paulhardyuk">Twitter</a> | <a title="w.linkedin.com/in/paulhardyuk" href="http://www.linkedin.com/in/paulhardyuk">LinkedIn</a></p>