---
title: "Follow up to North Florida ServiceNow User Group Meeting"
date: 2012-11-16T18:24:11.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=23fca6a5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619f3"
---
<p>Good morning all<br />We had a successful first SNUG meeting yesterday. Your attendance and participation is greatly appreciated. As we discussed, this is your user group and we look forward to working with you to make each meeting a success. By forming the Peer Committee, you will be able to work together to create agendas that will bring you the topics that are most relevant at that time. You won't be in this alone. ServiceNow marketing will work with you to secure speakers, sponsorship and help with the registrations and your local team will continue to support you as well.<br /><br />Jim Jackson will act as the User Group Manager and will be able to distribute announcements and notifications through the user group community site. He will work with the peer committee to plan agendas and will act as the point of contact for the Marketing coordinator. As your group grows, you may want to have a rotating manager annually so everyone can share in the responsibilities. <br /><br />Karl Simons, Craig Woolley and Joe Dziedzic have agreed to participate on the Peer Committee. Jim will reach out to each of you to schedule a meeting and discuss the next SNUG. Thank you very much for volunteering. This will greatly assist in the success of this group. If anyone else would like to be a part of the peer committee please let Jim Jackson or myself know. We will be happy to include you.<br /><br />Call to Action: If you have not done so, please go to the community and JOIN the North Florida User Group so you will receive the announcements and email notifications. You can also use this forum to communicate with your peers. It is a great way to gain information from the community. <br /><br />LINK to the User Group Page: http://community.servicenow.com/og<br />Scroll down to North Florida User Group<br />Click on the JOIN button on right side of page and complete very short profile form.<br /><br />We look forward to gathering together again in February!!!! Happy Holidays to all.<br /><br />Kindest regards<br />Tammy Crivelli | Customer Success Manager<br />ServiceNow | Transform IT <br />(m) 404-270-0067<br /><br />www.service-now.com<br /><br />Deloitte Ranks ServiceNow Number Five Fastest Growing Company in North America</p>