---
title: "Knowledge "
date: 2012-11-20T04:24:31.000Z
authors: ["breteden"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=fb7c26e1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96192d"
---
<p>Hi Folks,<br /> <br />I wanted to send a to personal note to encourage you to get your tickets to Knowledge13, our national user conference. It's in Las Vegas so it's an easy ride for everyone.<br /> <br />I have found the national user conference to be so valuable and fun I want my customers to get a head start on signing up and getting approvals for attendance. Last year many of the labs filled early and I want us to get first crack at them this year. They just opened the credit card system so that option is now open. Lastly if you sign up early you can save the company and maybe additional attendees will get a chance to go. <br /><br />DETAILS: <br /><br />Knowledge13 is your opportunity to tap into the expertise of nearly 4,000 ServiceNow and IT industry pros representing organizations from all industries and sizes across the globe. <br /> <br />Knowledge13 @ Aria Hotel and Resort, Las Vegas<br /> · Conference Dates May 12—16, 2013<br /> · Early-bird fee $1195 ($400 savings before Feb 15, 2013)<br /> · Pre-Conference $595 per course<br /> <br />Direct access to ServiceNow developers and executives, more than 180 training sessions covering topics for CIOs to administrators, and three times as many hands-on lab seats than Knowledge12 — Knowledge13 will be the most important training program you will attend this year.<br /> <br />Register Now to Save $400 AND Gain Priority<br />Register today for $400 savings off the standard registration fee and gain priority options for selecting your personalize agenda. Click this link to learn more about Knowledge13 and to register.<br /> <br />Present at Knowledge13<br />Become a Knowledge13 speaker. Selected speakers can receive a complimentary conference pass.<br /> <br />I will post this on our community website as well. If you haven't already please sign up for that here.<br /><br />http://community.servicenow.com/arizona-user-group<br /><br />Bret</p>