---
title: "Knowledge PreCon Training is now open  new courses lined up psst can you say App Dev"
date: 2012-12-06T09:33:54.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=8c8c26e1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961988"
---
<p>What do Application Development, Automation, and Domain Separation have in common? They are all NEW courses that we plan to launch at K13. Check out all the outlines here (please note we're splitting the Scripting class into two levels based on your feedback!)<br/><br/><a title="k-external-small" class="jive-link-external-small" href="https://knowledge.servicenow.com/k13/k13_preconference.do" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">https://knowledge.servicenow.com/k13/k13_preconference.do</a><br/><br/>Haven't been to pre-con training at a Knowledge event before? Well, check this out:<br/><br/> - on average, over the last three (K11 SD, K11 Frankfurt, and K12 New Orleans), 28% of conference attendees will come to pre-con training. That means over 800 people descending on Vegas Saturday night, to rise bright and early Sunday morning to partake in some yummy training goodness!<br/><br/> - we'll have at least 25 classrooms, and strive to keep a low teacher-student ratio by inviting certified instructors from around the world, elite members of our Professional Services team, and supporting cast to make sure your experience is top notch.<br/><br/> - for each and every class, we'll release our 'Top 5' lab sessions that you should attend during the conference to make sure you apply your learning straight away, and maximize the entire Knowledge experience<br/><br/>At K12, with 6 different courses (2 brand new), 16 classrooms, 30 instructors, and over 450 attendees, we came away with <br/> - 50+% response rate on our surveys... <br/> - 37% rated the two day training classes a PERFECT 10, woot!<br/> - 91% rated the training 8 or better <br/><br/><span>Feel free to post questions here, or contact me at </span><a title="k-email-small" class="jive-link-email-small" href="mailto:training@servicenow.com">training@servicenow.com</a><span>. Looking forward to seeing a whole bunch of you in Vegas, it's right around the corner.</span><br/><br/>Take care,<br/>jon</p>