---
title: "Echo Entertainment Group Matures IT Service Management Just in Time"
date: 2012-12-10T23:18:48.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=a34da229dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619aa"
---
<p>To recover from a de-merger, the IT organization at Echo Entertainment needed a quick-to-implement and cost-effective solution. It only had a few months to get the new tool up and running to avoid major consequences.<br /><br />The problem? Echo wanted to support existing successful processes while making others more efficient. Too many groups and too much complexity slowed the entire workflow — hindering IT's ability to respond quickly to incidents and collect relevant data. <br /><br />Once they deployed the platform from ServiceNow, Echo's management of service, asset, incident and change went live on time, under budget and over scope. Here's what they experienced:<br /><br />-<b>Speedy Service.</b> Echo saw fantastic results upon automating their service desk operations including incident, request, change, problem and configuration management, plus self-service and reporting. The results were a fast, efficient, and fluid service structure with added visibility into relevant analytics. <br />-<b>Consolidation &amp; Consistency.</b> ServiceNow allowed the team to consolidate disparate systems into a centralized, consistent portal for all of their needs, with just a few configuration changes to ensure that the tool and company processes were aligned across the enterprise.<br />-<b>Automation All Over.</b> As more Echo employees saw IT's success, they requested using the ServiceNow platform to automate other processes all across the business. Groups like human resources, payroll and accounts payable obliterated inefficient and manual workflows that hindered progress. <br /><br />The result: Echo achieved <a title="t.ly/UQ6nnq" href="http://bit.ly/UQ6nnq">rapid IT service management maturity</a> across its 120 IT staff members in support of 2500 workstations and almost 8000 employees across Australia. They were able to respond more quickly to incidents, enhance workflow, and provide and consume relevant analytics. Just in time.</p>