---
title: "Southern CA LUG Minutes"
date: 2008-09-04T22:32:06.000Z
authors: ["Angelo"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=816ceaa1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96198b"
---
<p>The Southern California Local User's Group met on Wednesday, August 27 at 5:00 p.m. In attendance was Scott Ornstein, Michelle Johnston, Tobin Hill, Donna Kregel and Angelo Esposito. Rob Woodbryne, who was scheduled to be guest speaker, was called out of town, and did not attend the meeting.<br /><br />Given that circumstance, Angelo, via his WebEx connection, shared his desktop and demoed a variety of reports that both his team and Eric Schroeder of Service-now have created. A large part of the conversation was spent in discussing the reports, brainstorming ways in which the reports could be used, and in sharing ideas about additional functionality that the reports should include. One major point that was raised was the inability of Service-now to allow the use of reporting tools such as Crystal Reports or Business Objects on the hosted instances of the database. One suggestion was to have a backup copy of the database delivered to the client's site which will contain data current as of the close of the previous day's business.<br /><br />After the report discussion, the group was given an overview of the Problem Management rollout that ICW was planning for the upcoming weekend. Donna Kregel, ICW's Process Analyst, discussed how the module would be integrated with the Incident and Change modules, and gave an overview on how ICW planned to implement the module. Several questions were directed to Donna regarding the auto-close process (i.e. how closing a Change will also close linked Problems and Incidents).<br /><br />The session ended at 6:00 p.m., PST. The next scheduled meeting is tentatively set for Wednesday, September 24, 2008, and may be one in which participants can meet one another face-to-face. Angelo is investigating this, and will provide details during the week of September 8th.</p>