---
title: "New Forum is launched"
date: 2008-10-18T14:43:45.000Z
authors: ["RobWoodbyrne"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=812e266ddbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619fa"
---
<p>Well, this is not what you were expecting to see, was it? Go ahead and login with your credentials from the old Service-now.com forums.<br /><br />More content will be added over the weekend, including more videos, topics to help you sort information and a glossary of Service-now terms.<br /><br />In the mean time, you are probably looking for the forum, so click on the link up on the top right corner of your browser and you will get to the main splash page for the new forum! Or if you are feeling adventurous, go ahead and try one of the 'Recent blog posts' or 'New forum topics' links on the right... They will take you directly into the content that you are clicking on.<br /><br />Still not enough? Well, then you will need to give the 'Groups' link a gander... Yeah, you can join any of the groups listed there, or if you want to manage your own group (doesn't have to be a local user group either!) let me know... I'll get you set up!<br /><br />Don't forget to check out your 'My account' page (under your user name on the left) that will let you update information about yourself, apply for different community roles, like a 'Blogger' for instance, and we will continue to make it even better, for those of you who want to get connected with other like minded IT professionals!<br /><br />OK... It is getting late, or I should say early, and I have a 6 year old flag football game to attend in a few hours, so send me an email if you have any issues throughout the weekend, and I will get it taken care of!<br /><br />P.S. Thanks Jim!!!!!!</p>