---
title: "Back to the grind"
date: 2008-10-28T02:21:56.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=30edeae9dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96196d"
---
<p>With the Quarterly Business Review and Internal Technical Training session behind us, it is back to the day job.<br /><br />Continuing to hear great feedback on the new community portal, thanks for all of you who have applied to blog, sent me private messages and pointed out some of the things that could be better.<br /><br />Here are a few of the immediate changes that have been made, based off your input.<br />1. Added badges next to user names for Service-now employees and partners.<br />2. Created Events for Groups.<br />3. Created a 'Discovery' support forum.<br />4. Added Guides, including the Admin 101 guide, which Ian is actively populating with the content he developed and delivers during his Training sessions! Check out his videos! :)<br />5. Added OpenID as a way to sign in. Just go and set up your profile in 'My account' if you use OpenID.<br />6. Activated a 'Code' syntax to allow you to post code snippets without messing up your posts. (How to use it is described under the input fields)<br /><br />Things I am actively working on.<br />1. The 'locations' red warning message which is seen when you create a user or sometimes when you create content. It is nothing serious, but it is annoying.<br />2. Better formatting of the emails the new site sends.<br />3. Email notifications based on 'Role Application' status.<br />4. A rich-text editor which will be available for posts and comments<br />5. A 'Topics' page which will allow you to see all the Service-now.com Topics, so you can easily search though content by topic.<br /><br />Please let me know if you are interested in establishing a Local User Group. I will be happy to help coordinate local interest with other Service-now users and even see if we can line up some resources to present during meetings now and then!</p>