---
title: "Tough Technical Issue Needs Solving"
date: 2008-10-31T04:23:47.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=4c0de6a5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f9619d5"
---
<p>We have a legacy application that is on its last legs. Despite this, it is one of our most critical apps (a situation that I'm certain many of you can sympathize with). At any rate, it appeared to be a great candidate for migration to Service-now. It met all the criteria, and when management learned that it would be stable, accessible virtually twenty-four hours a day and that there was little downside to doing this, they green-lighted the project.<br />Sadly, however, we have come to a sticking point in the road that threatens to derail the entire project. Here is the scenario:<br /><br />Claimant #1 files a claim against an outstanding policy. This claimant may have several claims pending. This claimant may be party to other claims filed by other people. The original claimant, as well as the related claimants may have multiple documents attached to their records. If you are following the scenario so far - good. Here's the kicker.<br /><br />After saving the initial screen that captures all relevant claimant #1 information, the user doesn't want (need) to see that record again. Instead, when they select that claimant from the active list, they would like a new form displayed that will capture additional information about the claim. This new form must have the original claimant's name and claim number so that the parent/child records can be linked. When we click on the list of records, it, of course, brings up the original form. We've tried to code around this, but to no avail.<br />Does anyone have any ideas how to solve this conundrum?</p>