---
title: "User Groups are rolling"
date: 2008-11-14T05:29:06.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=594deee5dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96197e"
---
<p>Couple of very cool conversations took place today regarding local user groups!<br /><br />I was on a call with the Minnesota Local User Group which has planned a half day event in mid December to host a lunch, customer show and tell and Service-now.com presentation of Knowledge management and Self-Service functionality. They have a great group up there in the Great Lakes region, if any of you mid-westerners are looking for a group to check in on to get some ideas about organizing your own LUG, send me a private message or post a comment and I will get you in touch with the Minnesota group.<br /><br />Shortly after I got off the call with Minnesota I noticed the brand new Ohio Local User Group has scheduled their first meeting! (Just take a look over in the 'Upcoming Events' block on the right)<br /><br />So, although the new stuff is exciting, I also want to mention that we have a couple of other active groups, both of which I have already had the pleasure of sitting in on their meetings as well as lining up Service-now technical resources to present during a few of their meetings: The Southern California LUG, which is our very first group and the Virtual User Group, which is a great place to get plugged in if you do not have a LUG in your area... yet. <br /><br />I am hoping that in the near future I will be able to announce that the New York group is official... you know who you are, I'll be in contact soon! :) Anybody else out there that would be interested in organizing a LUG, but doesn't quite know where to start or who to contact, please send me a message or post here, and I will help you get connected.<br /><br />...and just for fun, wanted to leave you with a great YouTube video!<br />[asset|aid=50|format=video|formatter=asset_youtube|title=8RdtbjwPSlI&amp;hl=en&amp;fs=1.youtube|width=425|height=344|resizable=true|align=none]</p>