---
title: "Service Now forums"
date: 2009-07-22T21:57:19.000Z
authors: ["mattberan"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=159c2ee1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961926"
---
<p>Here's why the forums aren't making any sense to me and why people aren't collaborating as much as they should here.<br /><br />1) The forums headings are illogical, think about the structure of your application or environment and restructure in line with that (this is also a good knowledge practice too, so think about having INC categories pre-populate your KB cats).<br /><br />You can keep your current structure too, but just add substructure Something more like this:<br />Forums - Implementing an application - Change<br />Forums - Implementing an application - Catalog<br />Forums - Local groups - Minnesota<br /><br />where change and catalog are both sub forums. This way, when I'm looking into building a Service Catalog, I can simply browse to the forums, click on the feature/plugin/app/ITIL best practice sub forum and begin reading. Also, we're talking tech-savvy people here, so RSS is king.<br /><br />2) There is no "one blog to rule them all"... or maybe there is and I can't find it. I get that I can read the aggregate of all our blogs by click "blogs" in the nav menu, but where is the "Service Now" blog. I really think adding that and allowing public comment would be your best way to drum up some community.<br /><br />3) There is no documentation for browsing your site, granted, I don't there is a "need" for this per se, but at our local user meeting yesterday there was some confusion about who can post where. This isn't a standard wordpress install, so some guidance is necessary (looks like a great first post for your Service Now blog!)<br /><br />4) OLE. Or at least some editing options (think wordpress again) It would be nice to bold, or italicize without the HTML markup, plus, I had to create this unordered list manually (shudder)<br /><br />4) That being said, I'm going to build a quick guide and post it in my next post with my local user group as the audience so we can start taking advantage of one of the best communities for an incident management tools I've seen!<br /><br />note: also, the "read more" link is not in a logical position... should follow the teaser text IMHO.</p>