---
title: "Time to Register for the First Annual Nor Cal User Group"
date: 2009-10-02T01:01:06.000Z
authors: ["FEman"]
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=2e6c6ea1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f961979"
---
<p>The word has gotten out, and we now have a very respectable list of 40 registrants for the Nor Cal User Group page within the Service-now.com Community. A few have already done so, but if you haven't already, please visit the Group page and formally register for next week's User Group session. We are set to meet at the Dolby Labs facility in San Francisco, and are putting the final touches on our agenda.<br /><br />Our call to action for next week's event:<br /><br />-Please Register via the big red button on the Group page, which will allow us to get a proper headcount and size the venue and edibles appropriately. Please do so by Friday afternoon, October 2nd.<br /><br />-We have a couple of open slots on the agenda to fill. Please let me know if you'd be interested in a "show and tell" opportunity, where we are asking users of the platform to spend 10-15 minutes showing and discussing any of the cool things you are doing with your instance. Could be a custom form, custom workflow, unique use of Knowledgebase or Service Catalog, or something so ground breaking the rest of us just haven't even conceived of it quite yet! <br /><br />Remember, this is your User Group, so it's important that everyone consider where and how you can contribute to making this a valuable event for all.<br /><br />One week and counting.....see you in SF!<br /><br />James<br /><br />james.watts@service-now.com</p>