---
title: "Some updates"
date: 2009-11-16T21:11:52.000Z
link: "https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_blog&sys_id=d38caae1dbd0dbc01dcaf3231f96190e"
---
<p>It's great to see that there's been some new members joining up and a it's long due for a few updates.<br /><br />First, I wanted to thank everyone for a great turn out in August at Dublin Methodist Hospital. We were pleased to have Jay Berlin, Principal Architect, Barry Brooks, Sr. Solutions Consultant, and Terry Brown, Sr Account Executive, all of Service-now.com in attendance to present. We also want to send a big thank you to Jaime Studebaker of Tek Systems for their sponsorship and support. <br /><br />There was some great discussion surrounding metrics, the content management system, and a roadmap presentation from Service-now.com. We again had representatives from multiple industries including Insurance, Healthcare, Education, MSPs, Manufacturing, Technology, and many others. <br /><br />We decided it best at this meeting to hold our next Ohio Local User Group meeting after the holidays and around the January turn. This will give everyone ample time and opportunity to spend the holidays focused on family and wrapping up all the festivities associated as we headed into fall and winter. <br /><br /><br />The Second update is an important one: That is a solicitation of your ideas and input for our next Meeting which is soft-targeted for end of January, 2010. It will again be in the Columbus, Ohio area. We again are welcoming our partners in the vendor community for sponsorship opportunities for this meeting. Should be another great event. Because of the travel for a lot of you, we will again be looking at a 9am-4pm meeting with a social hour/off-site to follow. <br /><br /><br />A third update is that we'll be updating the OLUG page and blog with some greater frequency. A lot of you who are out side of I-270 are feeling outside the loop in more ways than I and that makes me sad. So to help bridge the gap and make sure everyone understands how welcome they are, communications will solely be made through the OLUG site. If you'd like to send a note, just drop a PM here instead of the emails back to me. Hopefully this will serve to work a bit better for all of our friends out side the C-bus area.<br /><br />Thanks and look forward to meeting with our newest members!</p>